Three weeks have passed since the prosecution put the fugitive Yoo Byung-eun, de facto owner of the sunken Sewol ferry, and his first son, Dae-gyun, on the wanted list.
Even though the first trial for Lee Jun-seok, the captain of the ferry, and his 14 crew members has begun, the prosecution cannot find the truth behind the unfathomable disaster without arresting Yoo and his family.
Citizens are increasingly frustrated over the prosecution’s futile attempts to locate the suspects’ whereabouts.

A joint prosecution-police team again raided Geumsuwon - a religious compound in Anseong, Gyeonggi, of the Salvation Sect that Yoo founded - after being rebuked 
Despite mobilization of military forces to arrest them, law enforcement authorities still have trouble catching them due to their failures in arresting Yoo’s close aides, who are believed to have helped him escape.
We could expect to hear he has been successfully smuggled into another country soon.
In the trial for Sewol captain Lee and his crew, who are accused of murder and other serious criminal charges at Gwangju District Court, a public defender attributed the unparalleled maritime disaster to the shipping company Chonghaejin Marine, saying Lee could not have been involved in overloading the ferry with cargo as he was working as a part-time skipper at the time of the sinking.
The lawyer also said that other crew members cannot be held accountable for the loss of hundreds of passengers - mostly high school students - because “they simply followed the Coast Guard’s order to get out of the ship.”
Relatives of the victims in and around the court cried out, “Why didn’t you tell our children to jump out of the ship?” Without direct investigation into the Yoo family, the law enforcement authorities cannot tell the whole truth behind the tragedy, not to mention bring them to justice.
The disaster resulted from the greed of the Yoo family, the aberrant operation of the shipping company, the utter irresponsibility of the crew and the fatal dereliction of duty among maritime authorities.
The prosecution must quickly arrest the Yoo family to find the truth.
Under such circumstances, Yoo’s escape disqualifies him both as a religious leader and businessman.

As President Park said, it is hard to understand why law enforcement agencies cannot locate Yoo and his offspring.
Even after Geumsuwon was singled out as a “control tower” to help Yoo flee, they failed to catch his helpers.
The clock is ticking.
If Yoo’s escape is prolonged, the prosecution and police must take responsibility.
We urge all involved to settle the case as soon as possible.