More than 2,000 devout followers of a maverick Christian sect supposedly led 
Forming a human barricade in front of the complex, hundreds of them chanted combative slogans: “Stop religious persecution!” and “We will fight with martyrdom!” Yoo is presumed to be hiding in the compound.

Prosecutors are not interested in the dogma of the radical faction.
They merely seek to question Yoo and his eldest son over breach of duty, embezzlement and tax evasion allegations involving the shipping company.
More than 300 passengers - mostly high school students on a field trip to Jeju Island - were killed in the tragic sinking of the Sewol ferry last month.

The indigenous Christian faction partially exposed the mysterious compound to the press yesterday before denying Yoo’s connection to the sect and his status as its leader.
If their words are correct, an investigation of a person who has nothing to do with the faction does not constitute religious persecution.
Moreover, an official of the sect told reporters that Yoo was inside the compound, which the man later denied.
The prosecution only needs to confirm whether Yoo is there.

Everyone is equal before the law.
The Christian sect must help law enforcement officers to investigate Yoo so that he can potentially clear himself of false charges, if there are any.
That’s the only way to resolve the mounting suspicion among the public.
If the group continues to claim religious persecution, it will only help to intensify Yoo’s connection to the sect.
According to a few members of the Christian faction, Yoo often delivered pro-government sermons in the 1980s and ’90s, underscoring the importance of honoring the incumbent power.
If that’s the case, there is no reason for his supporters to follow the double standards Yoo himself adopted.

Yoo’s avid followers are ridiculing the authority of the law enforcement agency at a rally in front of the religious compound.
Prosecutors must bring him to justice by raiding the complex without fearing that they are persecuting believers.