The de facto owner of the Sewol ferry Yoo Byung-eon, his sons and aides failed to comply with the prosecution’s summons to question them about possible wrongdoings that may have led to the tragic accident.
Yoo, the former chairman of Semo Group and leader of a religious sect, defied the law enforcement order after all of his offspring similarly refused to cooperate with the state investigation.
Prosecutors must act firmer and more quickly to bring the Yoo family to justice.

The special investigation team of the Incheon District Prosecutors’ Office filed for a court warrant to indict Yoo on charges of embezzlement and tax evasion to prevent him from fleeing the country.
Prosecutors earlier ordered Yoo to appear at the district office by 10:00 a.m. Friday, but he, like his children, refused to comply without offering any explanation.
Prosecutors applied for a court warrant to detain Yoo because they fear he could discreetly leave the country, given the defiance of his children.
They are also unclear about his whereabouts and his influence over company executives and employees, which could lead to destruction of or tampering with evidence.

Yoo is suspected of hiding at a religious retreat in Anseong, south of Seoul, owned by the Evangelical Baptist Church.
A church spokesman said Yoo could appear at the front gate if he really was at the retreat.
But he neither came out of the retreat nor appeared at the prosecutors’ office.

Nothing the Yoo family and its aides have said so far has been reliable.
Soon after the ferry disaster, Yoo bowed his head and offered to donate his personal fortune as recompense.
His sons also issued an apology.
Yet their words were nothing but a way of buying time.
It is pitiful that they are hiding behind religious worshipers in order to duck legal and criminal liabilities.
Chonghaejin Marine has broken countless regulations and laws to run the ship beyond its age and capacity, using its shady connections with maritime inspectors, police and industry officials.
The owning family encouraged routine overloading and reckless operations without any heed to public safety.
As a result, hundreds of passengers - mostly students - have died.
Yoo and his family must cooperate.
They can exercise their rights as suspects during questioning.
Law enforcement must act according to the law.
The Yoo clan must be taught that they cannot hide from justice.