The de facto owner of the sunken Sewol ferry, Yoo Byung-eon, refuses to cooperate in the investigation of the accident.
He is obviously trying to avoid very expensive legal accountability for the tragic disaster.
Yoo and his family are making a big mistake if they think they are above the law.

A special investigation team at the Incheon District Prosecutors’ Office ordered Yoo to appear in their office at 10 a.m. Friday to clear up all the questions.
The prosecution made the decision because Yoo and his offspring didn’t comply with earlier summons.
The core members of the family, including Yoo’s second son and first daughter, both of whom reside abroad, refuse to be questioned by the prosecution.
His oldest son, who lives in Korea, has disappeared despite the prosecution’s repeated summons.
Prosecutors raided a religious training camp run 

Given the Yoo family’s earlier promise to cooperate with the prosecution’s investigation, the sudden about-face raises serious doubts about whether they are trying to obstruct justice and whether they will use their foot-dragging to give them time to destroy evidence.
Yoo’s children living abroad could seek asylum claiming religious persecution.
Their father leads a maverick sect of the Baptist Church.
But such a strategy cannot help but further tangle this Gordian knot.
What’s most urgent is finding out what really happened.
The fact that Yoo has been receiving a monthly payment of 15 million won ($14,677) from Chonghaejin Marine Company, the operator of the sunken ferry, and that Yoo’s oldest and second oldest sons are among the largest shareholders of I-One-I Holdings, a holding company of Chonghaejin, strongly suggest a very close connection between the family and the ferry.
Moreover, if Yoo was involved in the remodeling of the ferry to carry more passengers or in the practice of overloading cargo, he can be accused of unpremeditated homicide.

The arrests of the CEOs of his subsidiaries and the disappearance of Yoo and his family demonstrate the weirdness of Yoo’s empire.
Shipping industry experts believe he vanished in order not to bear the huge cost of compensations to the victims and their families.
Investigations of the Yoo family are necessary for social justice.
Yoo and his family can hide for a while, but they cannot cover up the evidence forever.