Prosecutors are investigating the owner of Chonghaejin Marine, the company that operated the ill-fated Sewol ferry that capsized April 16 off Korea’s southwestern coast.
Yoo Byung-eun and his two sons are suspected of orchestrating the reckless and illegal management that led to the accident.
But prosecutors shouldn’t stop at pinning down a scapegoat to ease public rage over this fatal incident, which has left nearly 200 people dead.
They must also try to uncover the illegal corporate and industrial connections that contributed to it.

An investigation team of the Incheon District Prosecutors’ Office summoned Yoo’s siblings, who are currently abroad, demanding they report to the prosecutor’s office by Tuesday.
Yoo, the tycoon behind a holding company that runs a host of other companies, including the shipping company, is expected to be summoned later this week.
Prosecutors raided the accounting firm that has been overseeing the logs for his businesses.
Yoo and his family members are suspected of embezzlement, tax evasion and other irregularities.

An investigation into the family, the size of its wealth and how it was accumulated and spent is necessary for the state to figure out its liability in order to pay damages to the victims’ families.
Moreover, the Yoo family is suspected of various irregularities and illegalities in building and hiding their wealth.
But prosecutors must be able to find a connection between those irregularities and the sinking of the ferry.
If they cannot prove that the Yoo family ran the shipping company poorly and caused the accident, a criminal case would be hard to build.

Corporate liability behind the sinking is unquestionable.
The Sewol ferry was carrying cargo two to three times the standard safety level.
The Sewol also easily lost balance and listed because the operator did not comply with the safety regulations.
Crew members on board were mostly inexperienced and untrained in an effort to save on labor costs.

While running the shipping company, the Yoo family used corporate money to fund private businesses to increase their family wealth.
Prosecutors discovered the family had created three paper companies to funnel billions of dollars overseas.
They are also suspected to have purchased a large amount of real estate properties through a farming association.
Yoo also has been acting as a photographer under a pseudonym to sell his pictures to his companies and buy an entire village in France.
After the accident, Yoo offered to donate 10 billion won ($9.66 million).
Prosecutors must come up with undeniable evidence to make corporate greed pay.