Quarantine authorities have stepped up action to contain the outbreak of the highly infectious avian influenza (AI), forbidding the movement of poultry farmers and their vehicles in infected areas to prevent the disease from spreading to other regions.
The first-ever “standstill” administrative order applied to over 140,000 poultry farms in North Jeolla, South Jeolla and Gwangju Metropolitan City.

The strong measure underscores the gravity of the highly pathogenic H5N8 virus.
The government confirmed that a flock of migratory birds at a reservoir in Gochang County had been killed by the same influenza that hit a duck farm in Gochang, North Jeolla, and later in nearby Buan County.
More outbreaks are feared along the migratory route of these birds if they prove to be carrying the virus.

Our authorities and society have always been too slow in responding to contagious livestock and avian diseases.
AI is said to be highly pathogenic and fatal to the infected birds.
The country has been hit with avian viruses four times since 2003, costing the government 300 billion won ($281.6 million) in damages.

Discord among the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and local governments has interrupted coordinated action.

Authorities and local governments must act as one cooperative and systematic network in order to combat the contagion of viruses and diseases.
They must join forces on everything from quarantine measures and the examination of wild birds to the aftermath of culling and the control of contaminated areas.
Their coordinated and effective work is essential ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, which is the busiest travel time of the year.

Authorities also must be quick to inform the public about its actions and progress so the influenza does not cause panic.
People increasingly shun food from the same type of livestock that was infected because of fears the virus will spread to humans, which hurts both farms and restaurants.
The AI virus dies when it is heated at 80 degrees Celsius for just one minute.
There is no danger of contamination when eating heated and cooked chickens or ducks.
Authorities must act proactively against the spread of the virus and also try not to respond excessively or cause further fear.