It’s been some time since the phrase “CSAT plastic surgery” was invented.
About seven years ago, I first heard the term from a friend, who had her daughter get eye surgery after the College Scholastic Ability Test.
The plastic surgery clinics had just introduced a discount promotion for college-bound students, and many of her daughter’s friends were getting plastic surgery.

So she couldn’t resist the advertisement, “Present your child with a sparkling future!” She almost felt guilty for not giving her daughter beautiful genes.
In fact, plastic surgery among high school seniors after the CSAT became so commonplace that friends have a hard time identifying each other at graduation due to their changed appearances.

The CSAT is over, and surgery season is here.
There are more than 250 plastic surgery clinics near Apgujeong Station, and restaurants and beauty salons as well as the clinics offer CSAT promotions.
The entire area seems to be soliciting the graduating seniors.
Many offer 30 percent to 50 percent discounts as well as various packages combining the eyes and the nose or the overall jaw line.

Some promotions even offer better deals when you combine them with others.
The CSAT plastic surgery boom is not limited to students.
There are “mother and child” products as well.
In fact, when middle-aged mothers look better, you can assume that their children have completed their college admission exams.
Plastic surgeons are enjoying brisk business as middle-aged women are most of the clients who get “petite treatments,” such as Botox and facial fillers.

Lately, ethical criticism has subsided considerably.
Reports on the plastic surgery boom among students are more informational, guiding them on how to choose the right product.
But I am still concerned.
On my way to work on a bus, I saw an advertisement on the back of the seat.
A plastic surgery clinic showed two photos of the same woman, one before the surgery and one after.
To me, the “before” was much more attractive, with unique features and charm.
The “after” may be prettier by universal standards but leaves no lasting impression, just like another girl group member.

I am not opposed to - or critical of - plastic surgery.
But it is not very desirable for students, who have had little time to care for their appearance and character while studying for the exam, to have the “doctor-gods” work on their faces and become one of the “surgery twins” with trendy faces.
Perhaps it would be better for them to make a decision about getting plastic surgery after they have looked at their own features and given some thought to their futures.
It is wiser not to rush things that are irreversible, because we are worth it.

*

by YANG SUNNY