“The highest leader of the country criticized citizens on Facebook.
Is it O.K.
for him to use his power like this?” an editor of the Asahi Shimbum newspaper criticized Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at a debate hosted by the Japan National Press Club on July 3.
He criticized Abe for using Facebook as the “arena of revenge and retaliations” against his critics.

The latest target of Abe was Hitoshi Tanaka, a former deputy minister for foreign affairs.
In a newspaper interview last month, Tanaka said Japan’s neighbors are attacking the country for its rightward shift because of the remarks of the politicians, including the prime minister.
After the interview was published, Abe took out his tablet PC, and on Facebook hit back at the former foreign affairs official saying Tanaka is “not qualified to talk about diplomacy.”
Abe said if the Japanese government followed Tanaka’s stance, that it should send back a group of Japanese abductees North Korea temporarily allowed to return to Japan, they would have still been trapped in the North.
In response, criticism erupted that the prime minister was wielding a hammer to counter a single civilian critic.
But Abe said a former official is not just a civilian.

At the July 3 discussion session, Abe seemed to show no remorse.
“I didn’t stop Tanaka from having an interview, so why should I be criticized for abusing my power?” he asked.
Tanaka is not the only one who was slammed by Abe.
A female opposition lawmaker who criticized Abe was also insulted.
Again using Facebook, Abe said “She lies very naturally, as if she is breathing.”
Compared to Korea, Japan is far behind in the politics of using Internet.
The coming election of the House of Councillors on July 21 is the first time the country has allowed online campaigns.
That triggered a fuss because lawmakers who are older than 70-years-old had to enroll in lessons arranged by the parties to learn how to use social networking services.
And Abe, in such a barren land of online politics, is an exceptionally strong SNS user, nicknamed the “Internet minister.”
Facebook was the springboard for his comeback.
After then-President Lee Myung-bak visited the Dokdo islets in the summer of last year, Abe posted a message saying “It’s violence.
It is irrational for those occupying to commit such a provocation.”
More than 20,000 youngsters pressed the “like” button on that posting within half a day.
Abe was confirmed as the idol of the right on the Internet and cyberspace heated up with ambitious support for Abe.
Today, Abe has more than 370,000 followers, and despite his hectic schedule, he posts an average of 1.8 times a day.

Abe does not hesitate to express his emotions straightforwardly and issue character attacks using social network services, and more and more users are learning from his style.
Japanese officials who were once known for keeping their true minds secret are starting to follow.
One diplomat attacked a lawmaker for “being immature” while an official of the Reconstruction Agency publicly posted insults toward a member of a civic group on his Twitter account.

Is it too much to expect courtesy and consideration in communications in the digital era?
* 