On Feb. 9, 2011, Michelle Obama made an appearance on NBC’s “Today” show.
She showed her sense of fashion with a navy and white polka dot dress and red belt.
The next morning, the dress was available for $35 from H&amp;M.;Moreover, the first lady, wearing a hat and sunglasses, was photographed shopping at a Target.
At her husband’s second inauguration last week, she wore a belt, shoes and gloves from J.
Crew.
Widely considered the most fashionable first lady since Jackie Kennedy, her down-to-earth style has impressed the general public.

Unlike Kennedy, who preferred European luxury brands, Obama often wears outfits 
The navy coat she wore at the inauguration ceremony was designed by Thom Browne.
She again chose a gown 

Her other designers of choice include Cuban -American Isabel Toledo, Narciso Rodriguez, Thai-American Thakoon Panichgul, India-born Naeem Khan and Korean-American Doori Chung.
They come from diverse backgrounds, but all are graduates of Parsons The New School for Design in New York.
Most are based in New York, but Michelle Obama’s appearances in their outfits have made them internationally famous.

Obama’s style combines New York designer chic and affordability, projecting utilitarianism and elegance at the same time.
She has also brought new energy to New York’s slumping fashion industry.
Nowadays, a mannequin of Obama’s size is a must-have in Big Apple design studios.
Her influence brought more than $3 billion in economic value to New York’s fashion industry.

South Korea’s President-elect Park Geun-hye may wish to make fashion statements just as Michelle Obama has with her impressive style.
The next president favors an up-do hairstyle reminiscent of her mother, Yuk Young-soo and pantsuits.
Her decades-old fashion reflects her adherence to principles and self-control.
However, unlike Michelle Obama, she has made it a strict secret what brands she wears.

She may have wanted to avoid unnecessary attention to her fashion when she was an opposition politician.
As president, however, her fashion has a different meaning.
She will be the face of the country, and her fashion will receive international attention.

It would be hard to find a better way to promote and advertise Korean fashion.

It would be thrilling to see a female president wearing accessories, shoes, bags and outfits from young Korean designers and domestic brands at meetings with foreign heads of state.

I am already curious what Park will be wearing on her inaugural ceremony.

*