In a TV comedy skit, actors repeatedly say, “Thank you.”
It goes like this.
“I went to the baseball game.
But the team I cheered for was losing.
So I was really frustrated, then I found a cheerleader right in front of my eyes.
Thank you.
I will also come back next week.
Thank you.”
I thought the skit was inducing forced laughs from the viewers, but now I think the punch line had a point: that being able to appreciate the little things and having a positive mind-set is just the thing for living in difficult times.
At any rate, I want to credit the show for spreading a positive attitude in Korean society.

Oprah Winfrey is the Queen of Talk Shows and is considered one of the most successful women in the world.
She has succeeded by turning frustration into appreciation.
She first became a TV anchorwoman, but was considered too emotional to deliver the news.
So she was “demoted” to host a morning talk show, a job that changed her life.
Instead of complaining or being disappointed, she was thankful that she was given the opportunity.
She accepted the offer, excelled in hosting talk shows and become a household name.

Winfrey is also famous for writing in a gratitude journal every day.
She is not writing about things that are grand, rather she tries to find five things in her daily routine for which to be thankful.
For example, she might be thankful for being able to get out of bed feeling refreshed, being able to see the beautiful blue sky, being able to have delicious pasta for lunch or staying calm when she gets upset with a colleague.

Many companies have introduced the power of gratitude into corporate management.
POSCO had its employees write notes of appreciation and the corporate atmosphere became more welcoming and friendly.
As a result, hindrance and defect rates have decreased considerably.
The first “Sharing Appreciation Festival” was held at the National Assembly’s Constitutional Memorial in Yeouido, and individuals, companies and organizations presented the progress and outcome of their campaigns of gratitude.

Being thankful means giving up your greed.
You acknowledge reality and dream of a better tomorrow based on a foundation of positivity.
Dissatisfaction only leads to negative attitudes and criticism.
Individuals and organizations may benefit from power of positive thinking.
Some argue that if you write one or two things to be thankful about on a note every day, the brain is changed within about  three months.
Let’s start by saying “thank you” at home and at our workplace for seemingly trivial yet valuable moments.

*