Recently, I read an interesting article.
The British newspaper Financial Times published an in-depth analysis on the impact of excessive smartphone use on the human brain.
The article introduced a number of cases, most notably an experiment by researchers at Stanford University.
The brain was scanned when reading a book leisurely and reading with intense concentration.
The comparison of the two MRI scans led to an unexpected result.

When the test subject was leisurely reading Jane Austen’s “Mansfield Park,” only the part of the brain associated with attention was active.
However, when reading intensely the areas involving movement and touch lit up.
When test subjects read  and analyzed with concentration, not just their  brain but your physical body also became active.

The researchers point out that this is the precise difference between reading digital media and printed material.
When you read a text on the Internet or smartphone, you tend to lose concentration and read superficially.
As a result, even if you read the same text, the depth of contemplation is not on par with reading on an actual piece of paper.
That’s the difference between reading pixels and print.

When you read on digital screens, the human brain circuits become accustomed to easy reading, and the overall cognitive and thinking capacities may be undermined.

Silicon Valley technologist Jaron Lanier warns, “We are creating a mono-brain” as technology is narrowing the range of cognitive function of our brains.
It is similar to mono-cropping in agriculture, where the cultivation of one type of crops for a long time reduces the diversity of soil nutrients and decreases the harvest.

It is ironic that the Internet and smartphone - the fruits of human creativity and logic - could  deteriorate human intelligence.
Our memories have gone bad for sure.
We no longer make efforts to memorize because you can search anything with a few touches or clicks.
As we are outsourcing memory power to smartphones, the storage of knowledge in the brain becomes empty.
Naturally, the comprehensive thinking capacity is affected.

Last year, Trend Monitor, a polling firm, surveyed 1,000 Koreans on what activities have decreased the most after using smartphones and most respondents - 41.5 percent - said reading.
Excess is never desirable.
We emphasize moderation and balance.
For the future of Korea, with highest distribution rate of smartphones in the world, “reading print” should be actively promoted as an antidote for “reading pixels.”
*