Despite all the pledges to walk down a path of “new politics” and give up their privileges before the Dec. 19 presidential election, lawmakers of both the ruling Saenuri Party and opposition Democratic United Party have again reneged on any real promise of political reform.
The politicians tried to hijack the reform drive after Ahn Cheol-soo, an independent candidate in the race, made the idea popular among voters.

Their bold commitments to revamp our backward politics covered wide areas, including a surrendering of their immunity from arrest while National Assembly sessions are underway, a drastic reduction in the number of lawmakers, a scrapping of their generous pensions, a 30 percent cut of their salaries, a ban on moonlighting at extra jobs and an abolition of their rights to nominate candidates for local councils.
Some of the proposals were agreed to by both parties or submitted by either party to the Assembly for further deliberation.
Many voters must have cast ballots for those parties believing their members would keep their promises.

However, legislators have put political reform on the back burner almost immediately after the presidential election.
They didn’t pass any of the reform bills they agreed to while swiftly passing a controversial law that grants government subsidies to taxi companies by classifying them as public transportation.
The representatives proposed the taxi bill to curry favor with hundreds of thousands of voters involved in the taxi industry.
Apart from their proposal to give up their parliamentary immunity - which needs a constitutional revision - all political reform bills were suspended.
A proposal to scrap lawmakers’ generous pensions was thwarted even when it was already submitted to the Assembly.
Now citizens must pay 12.8 billion won ($12 million) in taxes to the government to support thousands of retired legislators across the country.

The DUP has broken its promise to take 30 percent less salary without any explanation about why it backed down.
Does it not have to keep its promises because it lost in the election?
The proposed establishment of a committee to review the current salaries is but an empty slogan.

Before the election, both the ruling and opposition parties attacked each other by calling the other’s political reform agendas deceitful.
They got that right.
The end result is inarguable proof of their unconscionable behavior.
People’s desire for a more enlightened form of politics is running higher than ever before.
If politicians dismiss the people’s hopes for a better future, they will surely lose their seats in the Assembly four years later.