A friend of mine in Silicon Valley introduced me to an engineer when I was in the United States on a business trip last year.
The engineer  had been working for Apple for years, and I was dying to hear his stories.
For a company whose business is communication, Apple is notoriously secretive.
Even the PR managers frequently say, “I don’t know about that” or “I can’t discuss the matter.”
I hoped to get a behind-the-scenes peek into Apple, intending to write about it much later.

“Apple is like a drug dealer syndicate,” the engineer said.
“At the orientation, we were constantly told not to snoop around.
We don’t have social groups and know only the project we are involved in.

“Rules are very strict, so you don’t look people in the eye when you run into them in the office.
Getting too close to a coworker can be a mistake.
There was a rumor that an engineer attended an event at his child’s school; another parent asked him what he did at Apple, and he gave a brief response.
Soon after, he was fired.
Probably (sic), it actually happened.

“The hierarchy among the job functions is very clear.
The highest level is industrial design, followed by marketing, software and hardware.
The design and function are determined first, and the engineers have to make them .?.?.
We are under tremendous stress, but we manage to survive, not because of money but to see that product coming to the market.”
I was quite surprised when I read the recently published “Inside Apple” by Adam Lashinsky, which corroborated what I heard  from the engineer in vivid detail.
As former Lycos CEO Im Jeong-uk, who translated the book, said, “Apple is a company that goes against all the modern management theories such as transparency, power transfer and information sharing.”
But how can it reach such glorified status?
The book highlights the power of the extraordinary genius of Steve Jobs.
He valued design, never compromised on making the best product possible and created a culture where no one but the chief financial officer worries about profit and loss, and the employees are free to say, “no,” even to brilliant ideas.

After all, there never was a model for leadership that guarantees success.
In the end, only the passion and desire remain.
Any leader, regardless of style, is halfway to success if he can set fire to the hearts of his team.

*

By Lee Na-ree