President Barack Obama unveiled new U.S. defense guidance - divorcing from the long-held two-war strategy, or the ability to conduct two major regional wars at the same time, and shifting American overseas security focus from Europe and Middle East to Asia and Pacific.
Under the new strategy dubbed “Sustaining U.S.
Global Leadership: Priorities for 21st Century Defense”, ground troops would be reduced to 490,000 from 570,000 and 202,000-manned naval forces downsized by 15,000 or 20,000.
Defense cost could be saved by $400 billion to $1 trillion over the next decade.

New U.S. defense strategy has long been anticipated.
The U.S. is winding up its military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan that cost Americans $4 trillion over last 10 years.
American troops have almost entirely pulled out of Iraq and plan to complete draw-down from Afghanistan by 2014.
The U.S. is in dire financial straits from the two wars and global economic crisis.
Realignment in defense strategy to cut defense spending has been inevitable.
What matters is the effect on our national security.

The surrender of the two-war strategy means America cannot be engaged in wars at the same time in the Korean Peninsula and another region, like the Middle East.
If the tension in Iran develops into a full war and military conflict is inevitable in the Korean Peninsula due to North Korea’s attack, Washington would have to make a choice in priorities.
The change in U.S. defense strategy can send wrong message to North Korea currently under turbulent transition stage following the sudden death of its strongman Kim Jong-il.

The downsizing in ground troops also could lead to scale-down in American contingency deterrent forces.
Once the war command authority is handed over from the U.S. to South Korea in 2015, Washington would be politically incapable of increasing contingency forces in Korea.
Under current operation plan, the U.S. pledged to bolster forces by 690,000 within 90 days if a war breaks.
But such strategy has long been criticized of being unrealistic.
The U.S. must reorient war-time strategy more realistically according to its new posture outline so that there are no loopholes in contingency actions following the transfer of war operation command.

The U.S. reiterated that its leaner and smaller defense strategy would have no impact on its commitment to South Korean security and deterrence against North Korean attack.
South Korea’s defense ministry also echoed the assurance.
But we cannot shake off anxious feeling.
We are uncertain if Americans can maintain current U.S. force scale of 28,500 in Korea even after cut in defense spending and overall army size.
We cannot know if the expanded strategic flexibility of American forces in Korea could lead to practical draw-down or if Washington would demand Seoul to put up more in the cost-sharing of operating American troops here from current 40 percent.
We cannot be assured from mere rhetoric.
The U.S. and South Korea governments must present more concrete and specific details on emergency defense plans and security outline in the Korean Peninsula to ease public anxiety.