You wrote love letters every day for three years, but the girl you wanted married the mailman.
After all, things don’t go as you wish no matter how hard you try.
In life, you need luck.
A knowledgeable commander is superior to a courageous general, and a virtuous general is better than a knowledgeable one.
And a lucky commander is greater than a virtuous one.
That’s why the fortune tellers enjoy a high season at the beginning of the year, as people want to gauge their luck in the new year.

A friend of mine likes to visit fortune tellers and believes it’s very entertaining to make a small investment to hear what the fortune tellers say about his fate, adding that he only believes half of it.
He claimed that the fortune tellers in Korea have replaced the role of counseling and therapy in Western culture in many ways.
I personally had my horoscope data analyzed, but I am not sure about how well this could predict the future.

However, I believe in one saying: the shape of the foot is more telling than the lines of the palm, the face features are more evident than the foot and bone structure is more related to fate than the face.

But all these features are not as closely associated with fate as is mindset.
All the fortune, misery, happiness and trouble originate from your mind, so we need to remember this saying.

Personality assessments such as the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) must have been devised in order to figure out what’s going on in our minds.
Steve Jobs, who passed away in 2011, is likely to fall into the ENTP type among the 16 possible variations.
An ENTP type is a person who thinks and perceives extrovertedly and intuitively.

The more complicated a problem is, the easier it is to motivate an ENTP to resolve it, and ENTPs dislike boring or repetitive work.
Also, ENTPs act strictly according to their own judgment, so the description certainly fits Steve Jobs.
Personally, I also find the Enneagram of Personality to be convincing.
If personal fate depends on the mindset of the individual, the destiny of the state is determined by the collective mindset of the citizens.
The Year of the Black Dragon has begun, but the principles remain the same.
There is no predetermined fate for the country.
It all depends on us to make the year as auspicious and prosperous as we can for Korea.

*

By Noh Jae-hyun