The death of North Korean leader Kim Jong-il will likely turn the tide in the Korean Peninsula as well as in Northeast Asia.
The international community, including the United States, China, Russia and Japan in particular, are closely watching the situation.
The “big four” should treat the impending issue - how to stabilize the peninsula - as a top priority through close cooperation with the South Korean government to prevent any crises arising from the sudden power vacuum Kim left behind.

Kim’s death marks a watershed in our future relations with the recalcitrant regime.
At the moment, a dark cloud hangs over a smooth power transfer to his heir Jong-un, not to mention the possibility of an internal power struggle and military provocations, either on purpose or accidentally.
A more terrible scenario may unfold too: The regime could eventually break up amid extreme economic hardship.
Our neighbors must get ready to effectively cope with all possibilities in close collaboration with the Korean government.

Above all, the roles of the U.S. and China are important.
The Obama administration could be tempted to use Kim’s death as an opportunity to seek a “dramatic” turning point ahead of the U.S. presidential elections next year.
But if the U.S. government makes the wrong decision, it could deal a critical blow to Obama’s reelection.
The United States should deal with the situation wisely as a traditional ally.

We also hope China - the only country which can influence North Korea - will exercise restraint by resisting temptations to take advantage of the situation.
We urge China to demonstrate a mature and calm attitude toward the crisis by respecting international law.
It will only backfire if the country hastily attempts to show off its ever-stronger influence on North Korea.
We oppose any ideas or moves aimed at capitalizing on Kim’s death to China’s benefit, as the two Koreas are the only entities directly involved here.

Kim passed away without resolving the thorny issue of the country’s nuclear weapons programs.
Both Pyongyang and Washington were scheduled to meet in Beijing to discuss the U.S. government’s new proposal of food aid in exchange for suspension of the North’s uranium enrichment program.

Seoul, together with the rest of the world, must strive to lead Pyongyang on the path toward increased openness and reform.
Whether these parties will succeed in their efforts depends on how they cope with the situation.