A gilded record plate and a record player were loaded onto Voyager 1 and 2, which were launched in 1977 by the U.S. for the exploration of the outer solar system.
Included are messages from Jimmy Carter, then president of the U.S., and Kurt Waldheim, then UN secretary general.
It also includes greetings in 55 languages, including Korean, and 27 pieces of music from the first movement of Beethoven’s “Symphony No.
5” to a folk song from native Australian tribes.
In one phrase, it was loaded with “the sounds of the Earth.”
The main reason all this was loaded on the spaceship was the possibility that extraterrestrial life might one day find it.
Voyager 1 and 2, which were launched 33 years ago, have flown about 115 and 93 astronomical units (a unit equivalent to the distance between the Earth and the Sun).
And it is possible that they can reach an alien civilization, if it flies tens of thousands of years longer.
The project may seem far-fetched.
But Carl Sagan, an American astronomer who initiated the project, insisted that it was worth trying, like sending a letter in a bottle that drifts in the ocean.

Sagan, the author of “Cosmos,” also initiated the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI) project, for which an enormous amount of government money was poured into to capture signals that might have been sent by aliens.
The government no longer funds the effort.
But even after the U.S. government concluded that the project was “useless” and decided not to support it in 1996, scientists from 125 countries continue to analyze signals with support from private institutions and donors.

Of course, it is possible that not all aliens are advanced creatures.
On Friday, a research team of NASA announced it discovered bacteria that can live on arsenic instead of phosphorus, which is known to be an essential element for all Earth-based organisms.

It means that the possibility has increased greatly that extraterrestrial life can exist in an environment completely different from Earth’s.

Since the publication of H.G.
Wells’ “War of the Worlds,” many books and movies depict hypothetical situations where “bad aliens” have tried to ruin Earth.
But last year’s hit movie “Avatar” showed that kind and thoughtful aliens are also possible.

If human beings confront low-level aliens, even at the micro-organism level, how much of a mature attitude should we show them?
*

By Song Won-seop