There are about 85,000 of them nationwide.
They are in charge of 55 percent of the lectures at four-year colleges in Korea, but they have annual salaries that amount to between just 4 million won and 5 million won ($3,350 and $4,185).
They are not provided with basic social insurance coverage.
There are no offices or staff lounges for them.
Their title is “temporary teaching staff,” but people call them part-time lecturers.

Jun-yeong, the leading man in the film “Marriage is a Crazy Thing,” is also a part-time lecturer.
Therefore, Yeon-hee, a realist, does not marry him.
But she continues her affair with him because she thinks she can cheat on her husband, a medical doctor, forever.

Hong Sang-soo’s “The Power of Kangwon Province,” depicts the sorrow of a part-time lecturer in a more realistic way.
Though he despises Professor Kim, Sang-kwon visits the professor’s house with a bottle of Johnnie Walker Blue Label, because he is a part-time lecturer and he wants to be a tenured professor.

But reality is more severe than the situation depicted on film.
The lives of part-time lecturers started to crumble in 1977, when they were deprived of the status of “teaching staff” following a policy on financial stabilization of educational institutes.

In addition to receiving poor pay, part-time lecturers have no job security.
According to the Irregular Worker Protection Law, which was enacted in July 2007, a “part-time lecturer” is not part of the list of jobs that should be switched to permanent positions after two years of employment because they are regarded as a special group.

According to the part-time lecturers’ union, six part-time lecturers have committed suicide since 2000, accusing universities of corruption in the employment of teaching staff and flaws in their employment system.
In February 2008, a female lecturer in her mid-40s even flew to Austin, Texas, where she got her doctorate, to commit suicide.
The fact that she would take her own life, leaving her 16-year-old daughter behind, gave us a shock.
Another lecturer left a will, in which he said, “Something else, not research accomplishments or lecture experience, has a vital influence on the employment of teaching staff.
I hope that no one else will ever be in the same position as I again.”
Sadly, yet another part-time lecturer took his own life in Gwangju on Tuesday.
Mr. Seo, who was in his mid-40s, left a letter that said, in part: “I was asked to pay 60 million won 
He also said he had written numerous papers for a professor at Chosun University in Gwangju without credit.
The letter was addressed to President Lee Myung-bak.
Some 85,000 lecturers nationwide now await a reply from the president.

*

By Koo Hui-lyung