Entertainers remain undaunted and fearless in continuing to spout vulgarities on television, against a flood of viewer complaints and warnings by communications authorities.

The same names appeared at the top of the list for indecency and profanity during a two-week review of late-night entertainment programs on three mainstream television broadcasting stations.
The review was conducted 

Comedian Kim Ku-ra was once again named the most frequent user of profane, indecent and foul language unsuitable for broadcasting.
The songwriter and comedian Yoon Jong-shin also retained his second-place ranking.

As fathers, they should both be ashamed of themselves for using such coarse language on television programs popular with teenagers, no matter what time they are run.

Even more despicable and pitiful are the television stations for ignoring viewer complaints and failing to take disciplinary action against those accused of profanity, choosing instead to encourage and enjoy the showcase of obscenities.
The broadcaster that allows the most indecent language is MBC.
It is more foul-tongued than any private company, but, ironically, has been one of the most vehement opponents to the government-proposed media-related bills, claiming that changes to the broadcasting law could decrease broadcasters’ ability to serve the public.

The public broadcaster, which filed a complaint about the court decision on its scandalous coverage of mad cow disease, as presented on the news program “PD Diary,” appears to be sailing off in a perilous direction.

Potentially damaging language can be heard on mainstream television networks at any time of the day.
An actress on a morning show calmly talked about the positive side effects of marijuana, claiming it causes no harm.
On a late-night news discussion program, a defamatory comment against President Lee Myung-bak ran uncensored.

Although the commission issued advisory warnings to three programs carried by MBC and SBS, it should also increase punitive measures for broadcasters and forbid entertainers who use foul language to appear on TV.

Audiences should no longer be brought down by their vulgarity.

‘ 