When Hanwha Group Chairman Kim Seung-youn boarded a plane to Japan on Jan. 13, he had already let go of his long-cherished dream of buying Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co., the world’s third-biggest shipbuilder.

Just nine days prior, Kim had told Keum Chun-su, the group’s president, that he would “follow the decision of the executive directors” on the purchase of the shipbuilder.

This statement was Kim’s way of implying that he had, in reality, given up all hope of purchasing Daewoo Shipbuilding.

Kim had told Keum that his marginal line for the purchase was 4.5 trillion won ($3.2 billion).

This would have forced the group to sell Galleria Department Store, which they have always treasured as a cash cow.

However on the MOU with the state-run Korea Development Bank, which managed the deal, the amount stated was 6.3 trillion won.

Hanwha executives warned that for that amount Hanwha would have to sell the entire group in order to purchase Daewoo Shipbuilding.

“If Hanwha purchased Daewoo Shipbuilding, they would have had to invest an extra 2 trillion won right after the buy,” said a Hanwha official on condition of anonymity.

“There were many concerns on how this would affect the group’s liquidity and Chairman Kim was made aware of this situation.”
“The chairman said that the whole group couldn’t be shaken up due to the purchase, and laid down the line.”
At the time, Korea Development Bank had said that it could not reduce the amount as it also had to meet the Bank of International Settlement rate.

Kim had wanted to purchase Daewoo Shipbuilding for quite a while.

It is reported that Kim had decided to acquire the shipbuilder after the chairman of a major conglomerate, whom Kim looked up to, advised him to do so.

“Chairman Kim’s wish to buy Daewoo Shipbuilding goes back to before 2006,” said Jang Il-hyeong, vice president of Hanwha Group.

On Hanwha Group’s 54th anniversary of its foundation on Oct. 9, 2006, Kim said, “Let us learn from the survival instinct of migratory birds that fly across continents instead of only watching over our nest.”
After this, Kim appointed a team within Hanwha to look over possible purchases for the future, including Daewoo Shipbuilding, Hynix and Daewoo International.

However as the global economic slowdown started taking a turn for the worse last year, Hanwha’s investors started turning away.

“We tried to get a loan but couldn’t accept the interest rate, which would have been at least 10 percent,” said Jang.

On the last day of January, after Kim returned from his trip to Japan, he said, “We must not mind what is in the past and aim to find our proper place at this time.”
By Moon Byung-joo 