What can we learn from a country whose populationis one-sixteenth of Korea’s but which is 7.5 timeslarger in size?
Frankly, I was skeptical as I boardeda plane to Mongolia on Dec. 2.
But when I met witha Mongolian government official, I was convinced.

“In Mongolia, the population issue is a matter ofnational security.
The constitution guarantees thewell-being of mothers and children.
We handle thepopulation issue very seriously in laws and policies.”
The Constitution of Mongolia stipulates theright to financial assistance from the state for givingbirth and guarantees the well-being of families,mothers and children.
Until achild turns 18, he or she receivesa child subsidy, and pregnantwomen and mothers of infantscannot be fired unless they commitfelonies, such as misappropriation.

When the three millionthcitizen was born earlier this year,the cries of the baby were broadcastlive nationwide, and thepresident gave it the name “Mongoljin” as well asa house.
Thanks to these efforts, Mongolian coupleshave an average of 4.5 children.
How about Korea?
When the 

“This is exactly my case: frequent overtime,career discontinuity, a sense of guilt for the child andtens of millions of won in debt.”
I wanted to cheerher up and said, “You can get married and worktogether with your husband.”
But she said that when she expressed her desireto get married, the first question she got was whethershe was quitting her job.
Due to the low birthrateand aging population, the productive labor populationin Korea will decrease to two-thirds and thegrowth rate will fall to 1 percent by 2050.
The grimreality is drawing near.

Nevertheless, Koreans don’t seem to realizethe crisis.
The liberal Roh Moo-hyun administrationrecognized population shrinkage as a nationalproblem and created a committee directly underthe president’s office.
But when the administrationchanged, the problem became neglected.
TheLee Myung-bak administration moved the committeeunder the Ministry of Health and Welfare,and President Park Geun-hye reactivated the committeetwo years into her term.
The biggest crisisis not realizing we are already ina crisis.

When Mongolia gained independencefrom China in 1921,the population was only600,000, and foreign media reportedthat Mongolia was disappearing.

But last year, 94years later, 82,839 babies wereborn — a new record — and thisyear, the population reachedthree million.
Erdene Sodnomzundui, Mongolia’sminister for population development and socialprotection, repeatedly said in the interview thatthe focus of Mongolia’s development was populationincrease.

Dr. Park Jong-seo of the Korea Institute forHealth and Social Affairs, who accompanied me onthe trip, said, “The assistance may not be considerablybetter than what is offered in Korea, but we cancertainly learn from the will of the president.”
Thedesperation shared by Mongolians was behindMongoljin’s cry that reverberated around the countryearlier this year.

*