When you don’t know why there is a fever, if the cause is epidemic, enteritis or due to psychological reasons, the first step you should take is lower the fever.
If high fever continues for a long time, it can lead to serious medical complications.

In that case, a high fever is the symptom and the remedy to reduce the symptom would be a symptomatic treatment.
Before modern medicine developed, most of the home  remedies were allopathic treatment.

In contrast, causal treatment finds the cause of the disease and cures it.
To cure a disease from the root, it is right to use causal treatment.
However, when the patient is in critical situation, there is no time to seek the cause.
Even if one succeeds in finding the cause, some diseases have no specific causal treatments.
Viral diseases such as the flu still have no specific causal treatments.
That is why allopathic treatment is needed.
When the body is in pain, it is wise to treat the visible symptoms first.
However, the problem is that in case of inveterate disease, where there is clearly a causal treatment, relying only on allopathic treatment could worsen the disease or make it rely more on allopathic treatment.
It makes the disease worse, when it could have been cured through causal treatment.

The real estate policies of the current government are like looking at a bunch of quack doctors continuously using allopathic treatment.
Starting in 2003, apartment prices rose sharply in some regions.
The quack doctors observed this situation and brought in allopathic treatments, thinking it is an emergency situation.
They restricted speculation and reconstruction and introduced the policy of a real estate purchase license system.
The prices seemed to go down for a while but started to rise again soon.
This time, an even heavier allopathic treatment was used.
A hard line policy that had been seldom used, of applying high taxes and revealing the cost of construction, was introduced.
People started to advise that they should look at the root of the problem with perseverance and find the right cure, but the quack doctors did not pay attention.

In the end, the rising prices of real estate spread to other regions.
Even lease prices are rising, adding more pain to the masses that don’t have their own houses.
It is similar to pouring ice on a sprained ankle, saying that ice is good for sprained ankles, but as a result of pouring too much ice, the whole body is shivering and the toes are frostbitten.
Then one doctor declared openly the failure of his treatment and another doctor confessed, “I am not an expert.”
In the meantime, other doctors have been applying other allopathic treatments.