In England, the fortune of a dog is one of the best fortunes.
The love British people show to dogs is very devoted.
They do not spare money on their dogs.
According to research data from Churchill Insurance in England, a British adult spends from 20,998 British pounds ($36,156) to 31,840 British pounds over ten years raising a dog.
Therefore, for a dog, England is heaven.

However, the taste the British have for dogs is quite picky.
As if measuring one’s elegance, people question the elegance of their dogs.
The Kennel Club, an accredited breeding scheme in London, scores a dog after examining its breed, growing environment, any genetic disease and much more.
The dogs acknowledged by this club, which has a history of over 130 years, are recognized as fine dogs.
No one questions this fact.
The Kennel Club granted recognition to the Korean jindo on May 10.
From now on, the Korean jindo will be considered a pure-breed anywhere in the world, just like the British collie, the German shepherd and the French poodle.

Jindo are smart.
There is no need to potty train them and jindos do not meddle with others’ food.
There is even a legendary story that, during the Japanese Invasion of Korea in 1592, every dog on Jindo Island started barking toward the sea.
The next day, the Japanese ships were situated where the dogs were barking.

Jindos are dogs that know their duty.
In 1993, a white jindo named Baekgu, which had been sold and taken to Daejeon, found its way home to Jindo Island, 300 kilometers (186.4 miles) away.
It took seven months and the dog returned to its former master, an old lady, as only skin and bones.
A statue of Baekgu that stands in Jindogun Donji town is dedicated to this characteristic of the jindo.

Recently, Grand National Party Chairwoman Park Geun-hye said through her homepage she would like to give away her seven jindo puppies.
Thereupon, Uri Party executives criticized her, saying, “Using pure-bred dogs for political image insults the jindo.”
 Was the fact of the chairwoman wanting to hand out the puppies something that could be an issue of dispute?
Even if she wanted to use it to promote her political image, does the governing party have the right to scold?
Wasn’t it the governing party that had more fun through event politics?
The regular session of the National Assembly is heading towards its end.
The governing party should not lose their attention on other things.
Isn’t it the party’s duty to examine the draft budget and tax law proposal with eyes as bright as a jindo’s and handle them so they can benefit public welfare?