Revolutions with color themes are popular these days.
The prelude was the “Rose Revolution” of Georgia in 2003.
A rigged election was the cause.
People poured into the streets with a rose.
The rose was thought to represent peace.
In 2004, there was the “Orange Revolution” in Ukraine.
The governing party had manipulated the ballot counting of the presidential election.
The protestors marched wearing the color orange, considered as a symbol of change.

U.S. President George W. Bush stated the Iraq general election held in January as “Purple Revolution.”
In March, there was a “Lemon Revolution” in Kyrgyzstan that was caused by disputed parliamentary elections.
The anti-government organization Kelkel provided lemon to the demonstrators, and President Askar Akayev went into exile.

But color revolutions are not always successful.
About a week ago, the phrase “Pink Revolution” was heard during the Iran presidential election.

It originates from the colorful pink clothes women wore to protest Islamic fundamentalism.
However, the pink revolution failed with the victory of a hardliner.

The popular trend of color revolutions reflect the era of visuals.
United colors inspire solidarity among people.
It is thought that America, an expert in “image making” is behind this.
It means that it is a strategy to reorganize the world order with America in the lead.

Would this be the reason?
Zhen Xiaoying, the vice president of the Central School of Socialism has warned, “Be careful of color revolutions” and it is now an issue in China.
It argues that the West is trying to introduce a multiparty system into China and introduce a color revolution through an opposition group.

What color would fit China?
Actually, isn’t China the mother of color revolutions?
“Yellow Turban Rebellion” and later there was the “Red Turban Rebellion” and the Chinese Communist revolution itself was known as the “Red Revolution.”
Would it be easy to find an alternative color for red which is the symbol of wealth and prosperity?
The New York Times wrote, “Make a good choice of colors if you are to start a revolution.”