The passage of a new security bill for a war-capable Japan in the Upper House on Saturday has triggered strong repercussions across Japan.
Conscientious civic groups are vehemently protesting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s reckless push for the alarming revision.
They have attacked Abe for effectively nullifying Article 9 of the post-war Constitution by pressing ahead with the hazardous amendment that would allow Japan to exercise a right to wage war in the name of “collective selfdefense.”
In Sunday’s editorial, the Asahi Shimbun criticized Abe for his arbitrary relinquishment of the seven-decade-old spirit of peace, raising strong doubts over the validity of his action, as it could pose a serious threat to the Constitution and the basic values of democracy.
Abe’s effort to push through the revision apparently goes against the will of the general public.
The Asahi’s latest survey shows that 68 percent of the respondents opposed the revision, while a mere 20 percent approved it.

The roaring public resistance against the amendment — as vividly seen in the outrage of tens of thousands of Japanese citizens clamoring for the invalidation of the revision through rallies in front of the Diet in Tokyo and elsewhere — testifies to the severity of the constitutional crisis facing the rightwing Abe cabinet.
Many are increasingly turning their backs on the Abe administration due to the ruling coalition parties’ collusion with Prime Minister Abe, giving up their innate responsibility to keep the government in check.
The ruling Liberal Democratic Party and Komeito must listen to the public outcry as well as the Asahi’s commentary, which said that the burden of responsibility is on the lawmakers of the ruling camp to prove to the people that what they did was right.

We take special note of the fact that Japan’s constitutional scholars are preparing to file a lawsuit to determine the constitutionality of the revision as it could violate Article 9, which strictly bans Japan from engaging in a show of force and war.
Civic groups appear to be joining their crusade against the Abe administration’s push for a “normal state” in military terms.
Opposition parties also attract our attention as they are looking for a bigger alliance against Abe in the Upper House elections next July.

Above all, we take special note of Japan’s young generation aggressively opposing the new security bill.
Brigades of young protesters are chanting combative catchphrases underscoring the importance of an unceasing effort to protect their own freedom and rights guaranteed by the Constitution.
We hope the young generation’s campaign ends up shedding light on the future of Japan.