The cover story for the New Year’s issue of the weekly magazine Hankyoreh 21 was “Change 2 percent of Your Personality in 2005 for Your Happiness.”
 The article also listed seven personality types that can be harmful: the impulsive bombs, the compulsive snipers, the narcissist stars, the dependant martyrs, the isolated loners, the insecure tormented, and the obsessive perfectionists.
The bombs are people who stomp out of the meeting room when their opinions are not accepted or they mercilessly criticize a certain person.
The stars have savoir faire and are quick-minded but always care about what other people think of them.
The martyrs are self-sacrificing and responsible, but inefficient in reality due to a lack of self-esteem and concentration.
The tormented are friendly outside but are very pessimistic and anxious in general inside.

You might be dissatisfied with a certain part of your personality and want to reinvent yourself in the new year.
Then you should contemplate how the seven qualities of the rainbow are combined to make up your personality.
If you are inclined to one type, the key to happiness is to develop other qualities on balance.

You might be skeptical that one’s personality can’t be changed much for it has been shaped over years.
However, a drop of ink can add a refreshing blue hue to a cup of clear water.

Administrations have their own personalities as well.
In the last two years, President Roh Moo-hyun’s administration has displayed quite an impulsive and narcissistic tendency.
It could be categorized as a sniper ― its sense of persecution has made it overly defensive, and it surprised others with unexpected actions.

Lately, we can see a different mood.
President Roh has acknowledged his responsibility for social division and emphasized tolerance and generosity.
He has suggested to control the speed of reform.
Now he is less impulsive and sounds more like a martyr.

It is unproductive to debate whether the president has really changed or is merely pretending or has always been that way.
If those around him encourage and approve the qualities, they will contribute to building character.
In contrast, distrust and hostility can halt change.
This year, both citizens and the power should try to change 2 percent of their personalities for the sake of happiness.