“I sometimes think that riders brave, who met their death in a bloody fight, were never buried in a grave, but rose as cranes with plumage white.
One day I’ll join the flock of cranes, with them I shall go winging by, and you, who here on earth remain, will hear my loud and strident cry.”
“White Crane” was made famous among Koreans when it was used in the 1995 hit television drama series “Sandglass.”
 The sorrowful and solemn tune well suited the gloomy love story of the 1980s depicted in the series.
Because a Russian sang the version used in the series, some believe it is a Russian folk song.
However, it is actually an ancient ballad of Chechnya, which had long sworn Russia as a foe.

Chechens are people who have always yearned for the fighters who never return.
The size of South Gyeongsang province, Chechnya is located at the geopolitical crossroads of Eurasia.
Eastern Europe, Siberia, Asia Minor and Arabia meet in the Kavkaz region between the Black Sea and Caspian Sea.

Persia, Mongolia, Seljuk Turks and Ottoman Turks ruled the region.
The latest invaders were the Russians, who stepped into the competition in 1722.

Instead of forming a strong government, the Chechens united under a religion.
Since the 10th century, they have believed in Sufism, a branch of Islam that pursues spiritual experiences through chanting and meditation and emphasizing abstinence and sacrifice.

Chechens have a tradition of valuing brotherly love and group pride and worshiping saints and warriors.
Chechen  fighters were not afraid to die because they would be martyrs and become cranes.

It took the Orthodox Christian Russian empire 137 years to take over Chechnya.
Ever since, Chechens have taken every opportunity to declare their independence.
Having suffered two wars since 1994, the 1.2 million population of Chechnya has nearly halved, but the resistance continues.
From the Chechen point of view, they have been fighting against Russia for 282 years.

When two Russian commercial jets simultaneously crashed on Tuesday, radical Chechen terrorists were suspected as the culprits.
For the Russians, the incidents could be a second 9/11.
I hope all the victims become white cranes and fly to heaven.