Tiger Woods was overflowing with confidence after the second round of the British Open on Friday.

After hearing the weather forecast for wind and rain on Saturday, Woods simply shrugged and said, If the wind blows, it's going to be interesting.

But in the third round, playing in rain and strong wind, Woods all but eliminated himself from the tournament with a 10-over-par 81, his worst professional round since his debut on the tour in 1996.

Woods' bids for a calendar-year Grand Slam and his eighth major title were gone.

The New York Times described Woods as having been umiliated by the weather.

But a new major record was set in France on Sunday as Michael Schumacher, who is the equivalent of Tiger Woods in Formula One auto racing, claimed a victory at the French Grand Prix.
The Sunday triumph for the German racer, his eighth win in 16 Formula One races this year, has established him as the world champion of 2002.
Schumacher's success last weekend was also his fifth world title.

The Formula One series is one of the world's three major sports events, along with the Olympics and the soccer World Cup; it draws huge audiences annually, live and on television.

Claiming the world title for the fifth time at Formula One racing measures up to Brazil's recent fifth victory at the World Cup tournament.
The weekend victory 
And the record may be broken; Schumacher, who has a record-setting 51 wins in Formula One racing, shows no sign of slowing down.

The German racer, according to a Forbes Magazine ranking in 2000, had the world's largest income for a sportsman, $59 million.
Tiger Woods was second at $53 million.

During an interview with the International Herald Tribune, the German racer said,  a human being just like anyone else.
He added,  simply have a little bit of talent.
His words show a modesty and maturity that befits a man who risks his life for sport.
Reinhold Messner, a living legend to mountain climbers, once said that the mountain made him realize how his existence was possible; the key to lasting success, he said, is starting over again after a failure.

Both Woods and Schumacher have to be humble before time and Mother Nature.
Both may have reached the pinnacle of success, but there are still many mountains for them to climb and adversities to overcome.