Psychologists say that neurotic people are pained or upset or even become frantic because of matters that to others are insignificant or only slightly irritating － a stone in the shoe, or a run in the stocking.

People suffering personality disorders at the other end of the spectrum are unconcerned by matters or behavior that cause others inconvenience or pain.
Here, they are sometimes likened to "garlic lovers": though the garlic lover is blissfully unaware of it, others are offended by his breath.

Borderline personality disorder comes somewhere between these two disorders.
Those who have this disorder tend to pay excessive attention to the people who are good to them, but explode in anger or use overly abusive language to those who do not treat them nicely or decline to help them.

This disorder is said, in general, to accompany narcissistic personality disorder and dissocial personality disorder.

People with narcissistic personality disorder often exaggerate their own importance or fantasize about their success, power, cleverness, beauty or an ideal love.
In Korea, this disorder may afflict some of those with what is called here "prince" or "princess" syndrome: mild self-obsession and egotism.
These people can be rather popular, because they always make an effort to look good, are often at ease in social situations and have good conversational skills.

The problem occurs when they encounter someone who does not consider them special.
They will often insult or attack others with no sense of wrongdoing.
These people do not listen to others, and their arrogant attitude and words can inflict harm upon others.

People with dissocial personality disorder never feel remorseful, even if they repeatedly cause mental and material damage to others.
They believe they are always right, and have an illusion that their acts are equal to justice.
If others criticize them, they make up false excuses, and even if they appear to admit their faults, it is only a trick to wriggle out of a situation and far from a true insight.

They lie habitually and have no credibility or honesty.
They are easily agitated, become violent and sometimes get drunk and misbehave if things fail to turn out as they expected.
They frequently get involved in quarrels at home and in society.
People are not perfect, and everybody has a little bit of some disorder.
But healthy people can repress unhealthy impulses.
People have reason, and they know the consequences of thoughtlessly agonizing others.
In society, people have responsibility to act reasonably.
I believe such responsibility grows in proportion to social status.