During the Qing dynasty controlled by the Manchus, China developed into a great empire again.
The country's power extended from far-eastern Russian areas through southern Siberia to Kazakstan, and down to the Indian Ocean, Laos and Vietnam in the south.
The "Celestial Empire" was the center of the universe and outer and foreign countries were regarded as barbarians.
When George III of Britain in the late 18th century sent a delegation to Beijing in search of free trade and diplomatic relations, bearing British products as gifts, Emperor Qian Long wrote a complacent letter back: "Our dynasty's majestic virtue has penetrated every country under Heaven, and Kings of all nations have offered their costly tributes by land and sea.
As your Ambassador can see for himself, our Celestial Empire possesses all things.
I set no value in objects strange or ingenious, and have no use for your country's manufactures.
I have commanded your tribute Envoys to leave in peace on their homeward journey.
It behooves you, O King, to respect my sentiments and to display even greater devotion and loyalty in future."
The Bush administration has reportedly formally abolished the so-called "two-war strategy," where
The "two wars" in mind are usually envisioned on the Korean Peninsula and in the Gulf.
The strategy has been an essential part of the U.S. guard against international disputes for 10 years.
The abolition of the strategy accords with the new Bush administration's plan to move the axis of military strategy from Europe to the Asia-Pacific region.
In other words, it is a strategic move with China in mind.
Might the United States fear that the Chinese emperor's "impudent" sense of superiority is being revived?
There has been constant trouble between the new Bush administration and China.
Though the negotiations regarding the collision between a U.S. spy plane and a Chinese fighter have not yet been concluded, the United States has resumed reconnaissance flights off the coast of China.
The United States seems to be testing China's patience.
In the United States some are even arguing that the possibility of war with China should be taken as a reality.
President George W. Bush needs to listen to the advice of Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, who served as President Carter's National Security Advisor from 1977 to 1981.

Dr. Brzezinski said in his book, "The Grand Chessboard," that the belief that China will be the next superpower only encourages China's megalomania.
He said this view also fuels the aggressive and hostile attitude we see in the United States toward China.