Mercedes Benz, which we commonly refer to as "Benz," is known as the world's best passenger car.
It is the most famous luxury vehicle not only in Korea, but also in the United States, the world's largest automobile market, and Japan, the largest exporter of cars, as well as Germany, the home of the automobile.
Even North Korean National Defense Commission chairman Kim Jong-il is well known for his hobby of collecting Mercedes Benz cars.

The genealogy of Mercedes Benz is somewhat complex.
Gottlieb Daimler, who invented the first gasoline-powered engine in 1883, developed a four-wheeled carriage driven 
That carriage is the ancestor of today's automobiles.
Based on those achievements, he established Daimler-Motoren-Gesellschaft in Stuttgart in 1890, and produced the first Mercedes car in 1901.
Around the same time, in 1883, Karl Benz found Benz &amp; Co., an engine manufacturer.
Two years after establishing the company, he invented the first three-wheeled gasoline-powered vehicle using electric ignition.
The two companies, which both succeed in developing automotive vehicle independently, merged into Daimler Benz in 1926.

Chrysler Corporation was established in the United States in 1925.
Although the launch of the company was 20 years after that of GM and Ford motor companies, Chrysler soon ranked third among the largest automakers in the United States.

Problems arose after Daimler Benz took over Chrysler at a price of $36 billion in 1998 to form DaimlerChrysler.
The Germans and Americans in the newly launched company bickered with each other and sales of Chrysler cars, which had been good before the merger, went into a tailspin.

A few days ago, the company announced an workout program in which six plants would be shut down and 26,000 employees laid off.
Its goal to become the world's most competitive automaker based on the combination of the two firms' strong points was dealt a blow.
There are many theories about the cause of the failure, but it is generally thought that DaimlerChrysler foundered due to the different corporate cultures in the two countries.
Commentators noted that the authoritative German managers and individualistic American employees could not get along in one company.
As time went on, Americans felt disturbed because the merger was not on an equal footing, but more of a takeover by Mercedes Benz.

Because we will soon have to sell many companies, including Daewoo Motor Company, to foreign buyers, we can no longer be mere spectators, paying no attention to the failure of DaimlerChrysler, which may be a precedent.