As spring comes, all things return to life.
Green grass sprouts in earth that was frozen during the winter, and flowers bloom on what seemed like withered tree branches.
The air is shimmering over the fields of a rural village and mating skylarks sing their songs.
People are no exception to the changes caused by spring.
Many people find that their minds wander during the springtime, and such experiences, in fact, have a basis in biology.
People feel uneasiness in springtime because of the sun.
As the length of daytime gets longer, sunlight stimulates the pituitary gland to secrete more hormones, stimulating the sexual glands and triggering an urge to reproduce, according to scientists.
It is generally accepted that Italians are passionate, emotional and, shall we say, vigorous because of the intense sunshine in Italy.

In fact, Mediterranean girls generally experience their first menstruation earlier than those living in northern Europe.
Coincidence or not, Giovanni Giacomo Casanova, the legendary playboy of 18th-century Europe, was an Italian.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, the distinguished German writer, traveled in Italy twice during his life, admiring the southern country where lemon flowers blooms.
It seems that his trips had something to do with the relationship shared between vigor and the sun.
He gained literary inspiration through involvement with many women during his life.
At age 73, he was attracted to Ulrike von Levetzow, who was only 19 years old.
Can we suspect that he found such vigor and passion in the sun of Italy?
I think it is not a coincidence that his last words were, More light A few days ago, the Court of Cassation, the highest appellate court in Italy, was in the news.
The Italian court ruled that a light pat on the bottom is not sexual harassment when it is shown to have been an isimpulsiveln incident.
Although many women are disturbed at the ruling, I could not help but think that the ruling seems to summarize the characteristics of Italy, the country of sun and passion.

Korean society has made efforts to prohibit sexual harassment in work places, driven mostly by women™s organizations.
Based on such efforts, sexual harassment at work has decreased greatly, but reports of distressing incidents still continue.
Recently, society was stirred by a case in which an army major general sexually harassed a female subordinate officer.

Those who may be encouraged by the recent court ruling in Italy still have to take care.
Korea can nev- er be Italy.
In our country, not only patting someone™s bottom, but also looking at someone™s body up and down in a lewd manner is sometimes considered sexual harassment.
Spring is coming, and we should set our minds, which can easily become impulsive, in good condition.