Korean society has been stirred by the remark of a monk.
Jeong-dae, chief executive of the Chogye order, Korea's largest Buddhist sect, reportedly criticized opposition leader Lee Hoi-chang when a representative of the Millennium Democratic Party paid a courtesy call on him for the Lunar New Year.
"If he becomes the next president, there is no guarantee that Korea will not become embroiled in the worst round ever of political retaliation," said the monk to the ruling party visitor.
The Chogye order rushed to dampen the resulting turmoil 
We are not sure if it really was a well-wishing remark.
There may be some relativity involved – a curse for one party may be a well-wishing remark for the other.

Exchanging greetings is a traditional Korean practice to celebrate Lunar New Year.
According to Dongguksesigi, a compendium of seasonal traditions from the Chosun dynasty era, Koreans exchanged greetings with their friends when they come across them on the street, celebrating the new year and wishing them happy events.
People visited their relatives' and friends' houses to exchange greetings and good wishes and sent letters to their loved ones living apart.

Today, such salutations are mostly shared when giving a formal bow of respect to elders on New Years Day.
However, we should be aware of a formality when making such remarks.
Many people say, "I wish the best for you in the New Year," to their elders when bowing.
However, courtesy demands that elders give a greeting first to their juniors after receiving bows, and then the juniors give their words of respect to their elders in return.

Choi Nam-seon, a famous historian and literary figure, once said that salutations of Korean people on Lunar New Year tend to be expressed in a strong tone.
It is better to pray for the mostearnest desires of the one beinggreeted.
Well-wishing remarksoriginate from a belief that wordshave the power to make a dream come true.
Only well-wishingremarks made sincerely can inspire listeners to realize their dreams.

Many readers are probably in ornearing their home towns to celebrate the Lunar New Year.
My wish for them is to cleanse their ears and eyes and forget the bad news of last year 
I hope that everyone enjoys the merry note of Korean magpies, which our ancestors believed would bring only good news throughout the year.
Let us share well-wishing remarks with our beloved ones and achieve all our dreams this new year.