The history of expositions, in which human achievements are displayed in one place to review the process of development and predict the future, dates back 2,500 years.
According to the Old Testament, the Persian King Ahasuerus held the first exposition by inviting representatives of foreign countries and showing off splendors of his empire for six months.
An exposition, in a modern form, was first held in London in 1851.

At that time, the volume of international exchanges grew bigger and various technologies and diversified forms of cultures were introduced as a result of the Industrial Revolution.
The Crystal Palace Exposition in London, which was held to reflect such changes, triggered industrial revolutions in France and Germany.

France, in particular, held world expositions four times during the 19th century, helping Paris become a world center of culture, art and scientific technologies.
The Eiffel Tower, the symbol of Paris, was built during the expo of 1889, celebrating the centennial of the French Revolution.
As more countries started to open expositions competitively, the Bureau International des Expositions was established in Paris in 1928 to arrange a schedule for hosts and expositions.
"Expo," commonly referring to a largescale noncommercial exposition, requires the bureau's approval, but anyone can host trade expositions in general.

Germany, which, until the early 20th century fell behind other European countries in holding expositions, now holds expositions all year long as its industry rapidly develops, gaining the nickname of "expo country."
Today, almost every major city has its own distinctive sample fair, called "Messe."
One of the most popular Messe is "Die Frankfurter Buchmesse," the world's largest book fair.
Hannover, where Expo 2000 was held, is famous for hosting "CeBit," an electronic and communication show.

The most unusual exposition held in Germany is "Gruene Woche .
International Green Week," held in Berlin every January.
While most expositions are devoted to industrial products, Green Week is an exhibition of agricultural products.
Foods, fruits, vegetables, flowers and plants from all around the world are displayed and sold.
At the 66th round of Green Week, open until Sunday, 11 Korean companies are displaying 38 products including pears, apples and soybean paste.

It is time for us to seriously consider establishing a distinctive exposition of our own, such as Kimchi Expo, presenting everything about kimchi.
As kimchi becomes increasingly popular in the global market, such an expo would not only increase exports but also attract tourists.
Kimchi Expo is also necessary to maintain our reputation as the origin of kimchi, preventing Japan from taking such fame away.

`