"Samguk Yusa," a historical re-cord of the period of the Three Kingdoms in ancient Korea, offers ascene in which the people of Karak greeted their king, Suro, with song and dance.
These people, who had lived scattered in small clans and tribes, had the honor of hav-ing Suro as their king and estab-lished a country while singing and dancing.

From ancient times, through vari-ous historical documents, including ones from China, we can easily find traces and records that our nation has always enjoyed singing.
While singing, we have strengthened the unity of villages and created a nation.
Generally, singing is known to have originat-ed in the sort of screaming done when a person experiences extreme excitement.
Ecstasy, a state of overwhelming emotion, especially rapturous delight, somtimes meansattaining deity.
The joy of beingpossessed by a spirit and becomingone with the spirit is expressedwhile a person sings.

The expression of great joy 
As stagnant water becomes foul, those who fail to relievestress will suffer from illness in their hearts and bodies and end up dying.
Spring can only come after the snow and ice melt.
Singing is what triggers a person to relieve stress in his heart, summoning the spirit of spring in people's minds.
Singing has the function ofintegrating a society through healing individuals' illness by letting them communicate with spirits.
It also reinforces the solidarity of a society.
As many scholars find the identity of our nation in our people's tears and regrets, we are known to exception-ally enjoy singing to resolve these regrets.

Singing room – noreabang in Korean - again con-firms to the world that Koreans enjoy singing.
In the 1970s and '80s, karaoke, where people sing accompanied by an instrument, normally after drinking, has been popular in Korea.
Entering the 1990s, karaoke slowly transformed itself into singing rooms.
In singing rooms, customers simply turn on a machine and sing their favorite songs with their friends, family and co-workers to relieve their stressand reconfirm close tie.
Singingrooms are largely opened anywherein the world where Koreans live.

Unfortunately, the customers ofsinging rooms, where families cangather and sing together withsmiles, are no longer enjoying new-ly released songs because of dis-putes between the Korea Music Copyright Association and manu-facturers of singing room music machines.
Even in the old times, when people faced difficulties while traveling over mountains and rivers, songs found their way toother regions.
It is sad that people can no longer find favorite songs at singing rooms.
Let people sing for the warm spring wind to blow in their hearts in thisfreezing winter season.