There was an interesting contribution this week on the oped pages of the New York Times and the International Herald Tribune (Bill Clinton: The French Years).
The article was written in the form of a letter to President Bill Clinton, who faces the end of his term on Saturday.
Patrick Weil, a senior research fellow at the French National Center for Scientific Research, started his letter this way: "Dear President Clinton: As you prepare to move out of the White House, you are no doubt wondering what you will do next.
Perhaps you assume that your time as a president has come to an end, that you must now move on to other, less attractive, alternatives.
I have good news for you: You may have the opportunity to be president of France."
The writer stated that under the revised French civil code, Mr. Clinton, born in Arkansas, which was once part of French Louisiana, could apply immediately for naturalization, without the usual fiveyear residency requirement.
The writer advised Mr. Clinton to run in the next French election in May 2002.
He said Mr. Clinton has a good possibility of winning the election because the French media have been seeking a new and fresh "third man" in addition to the two obvious candidates, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin and President Jacques Chirac.

The letter also lists the advantages Mr. Clinton can enjoy, if elected French president.
It says he can enjoy much greater power than an American president if he holds a majority in the Parliament.
If not, Mr. Clinton can dissolve the National Assembly and call for new elections.
And he can be reelected every five years without end because there is no term limit for the French presidency.
Mr. Weil wrote that Mr. Clinton may not suffer from the language barrier because French politicians use such familiar words as "election," "globalization" and "recession."
How about a parody of this letter to meet the reality of our society?
Here is our letter to Mr. Clinton: The next presidential election in Korea is scheduled to take place in December 2002.
Although Lee Hoichang, the Grand National Party president, and Rhee Inje, a Supreme Council member of the Millennium Democratic Party, have been the obvious candidates, polls show that the voters are looking for a promising newcomer.
If you win the election, you will find the Korean presidency affords many advantages.

In order to form a ruling circle coalition, we can loan lawmakers to another party.
You can also divert national budgets to election funds, instead of depending on fundraising activities.
The most attractive advantage will be that you do not have to worry about standing in front of a grand jury to testify in the Monica Lewinsky scandal, as long as you are in power.