Robert Benton directed a movie, "Kramer vs. Kramer," in 1979.
The movie impressively described the feud between a husband and a wife over the custody of their son.
Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep's simple and temperate performances contributed to the movie's success; it won five Academy Awards, including best picture, best director, best adapted screenplay, best actor, and best supporting actress.

Viewers can feel the real paternal love in seeing a husband trying his best to keep his seven-year-old son after his wife, who left the family, came back one and a half years later and insists on taking their son away with her.
Ironically, the movie inspired viewers to become aware of the value of home and family based on the divorce of a couple.

In Germany, former tennis star Boris Becker's divorce suit is an object of interest.
As in the movie, it involves a custody fight and the press calls the case "Becker vs.
Becker."
Mr. Becker married a black American singer, Barbara Feltus, in 1993 and the couple had two sons.
Mr. Becker and his wife separated last month.
His wife, currently living in Miami, Florida, with their two children, filed for divorce in a local court.
Mr. Becker also filed a divorce case against his wife in a Munich court.
According to Mrs. Becker, she will not yield custody of children because of a prenuptial agreement.
She wants Mr. Becker to pay child support as a part of the divorce.
Mr. Becker argues that he, as the father, has the right to raise his two sons according to international agreements, because their children were raised in Germany.

Even after their divorce suit was aired on Jan. 4, they are still discussing what next steps to take.
They once appeared to reach an agreement in which Mr. Becker would pay 15 million German marks to his wife and give up custody of his children.
Then his wife is said to have demanded an additional 45 million German marks.
Moreover, a Russian-born fashion model based in England is demanding a large sum of money in a paternity suit against Mr. Becker, whom the mother claims is the father of her nine-month-old daughter.

If the paternity suit has any merit, it seems that Mr. Becker has made a big mistake and it will never be possible for him and his wife to get back together.
As the theme of the story shifts from child custody to money, the freshness has disappeared.
It seems that the story started as literature but ended up as a popular novel.

In Korean society, divorce has been increasing recently; statistics say one couple divorces for every three couples who get married.
Despite the differences in the West and East, any couple has to seriously consider before making such a decision, which can hurt themselves as well as their children for the rest of their lives.
An old saying goes that nothing is so unpalatable as a lovers' quarrel, meaning that a married couple should always endure and understand each other.