Last week Friedrichsfeld Cemetery, in the part of the German capital formerly known as East Berlin, began to see a great influx of visitors arriving to pay homage to a woman who was a champion of people's freedom.
In that cemetery, the revolutionary leader Rosa Luxemburg lies in a 16.5 square-meter tomb covered with carnation flowers.

Born in 1871 into a Jewish merchant family in Poland,  Rosa Luxemburg became one of the most influential political figures in early 20th-century Europe.
She played an important role in the founding of the Polish Social Democratic Party and the Spartacus League, which later became the Communist Party of Germany.
She was renowned in international Communist organizations as a theorist who could match wits with Vladimir Ilyich Lenin.
Nicknamed "Bloody Rosa," she was considered an intellectual revolutionary next only to Karl Marx.
Monday, not only Germans but other people worldwide observed the 82nd anniversary of her assassination by German gansters backed by the military on Jan. 15, 1919.

Even before German reunification in 1990, January 15 was the national holiday in the former East Germany, with large numbers of visitors each year paying their respects at Rosa Luxemburg's tomb.

The revolution in Germany started when young leftist elements formed the Spartacus League and endeavored to take control of the unstable government of Kaiser Wilhelm II after he fled from Germany after its defeat in 1918 in World War I.
The revolutionary leaders Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht were subsequently assassinated and their movement was suppressed soon after by the German Freikorp army.
That ended the dream of democracy for workers, as Germany went under the control of the corrupt Weimar Republic.
Thus the way was paved for Hitler and his Nazi forces to seize power.

Rosa Luxemburg's goals were not realized during her lifetime.
But the intellectuals who were dissatisfied both with the proletariat dictatorship and the reformist social democratic parties in Europe took up her cause  in order to achieve their aims.
Her ideology provided the theoretical cornerstone for the New Left movement of the 1960s.

The Encyclopaedia Britannica describes Rosa Luxemburg as a political theoretician who "developed a humanitarian theory of Marxism, stressing democracy and revolutionary mass action to achieve international socialism."
Some scholars maintain that since her death there has been no other person with the same charisma, intellect, honesty and democratic ideals.

Today instead of Rosa Luxemburg's dream for the triumph of proletariat internationalism, its antithesis, capitalist globalization, is expanding across the world.
One wonders what she would make of society today.