It's  well known that people who tell lies normally experience psychological strain, unease or agitation because of  worry that their lies may be detected.
Psychologists say such feelings may affect the sympathetic nerve that triggers various physiological reactions.
A scientist once established a method for detecting lies by noting 23 different verbal and nonverbal actions such as stammering, blinking, sweating, swallowing hard and avoiding eye contact.

During his testimony to the grand jury regarding the sex scandal involving White House intern Monica Lewinsky, President Bill Clinton touched his nose an average of 26 times a minute, giving credence to the so-called "inocchio effect."
An American doctor, Alan Hirsch, has remarked that "When a person lies, the inside of his nose becomes congested and itchy.
Therefore a liar would frequently touch his or her nose by scratching or rubbing it."
So the story of Pinocchio, whose nose kept growing longer as he told more lies, may not be a mere fairy tale!
The polygraph is a machine that records the physiological changes that a liar experiences; it measures breathing, pulse rate and blood pressure.
This equipment is often used to determine the veracity of a statement.
The polygraph dates back to Galileo Galilei, the 16th Century astronomer.
By means of his invention, which recorded human pulse rates, criminologists utilized it to help detect lies, eventually devising the lie detector in 1920.

During a trial, the judge has the power to evaluate the level of evidence of the data provided by the lie detector.
Statistical data show that in most cases, the accuracy of the lie detector, which is roughly 90 percent, is higher than other evidences submitted to a court.

There was recently a report about the invention of technology that reads brain waves.
This device measures the electrical impulses created by the brain wave in which the traces of memory a person might wish to keep secret will be detected.
Some individuals can exhibit diatheses, a condition that enables a person to lie and show minimal physiological changes, so a lie detector test in this instance may be worthless.
But the equipment which reads brain waves may be more effective, in this case.
However, the prospect of its use is both daunting and frightening.

Many folks, when queried by their boss on how their assigned work is going, may reply that "It's almost done."
Then there are those men who tell their lovers that "You are the prettiest girl in the world," and who then call their wives to say, "I'll be home a little late because of work."
These statements are known to be ones which ordinary people most often lie about.
Some call a lie a "lubricant" of the truth.
But everyone knows that a lie should never replace the truth.