Former Japanese Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka is a politician who gained power through money but collapsed because of money.
He was the first son of a poor rural family,  moved to Tokyo when he was 15 after completing elementary school and ultimately established a construction firm.
Around the time when Japan surrendered in  World War II, Tanaka Civil Engineering Co. mostly operated on the Korean Peninsula.

Mr. Tanaka was elected as a lawmaker in 1947.
Using the know-how about money that he learned while running his construction business, he raised enormous political funds by buying and selling land.
He was famous for his exceptional mathematical ability and mobility, gaining a  reputation as "a computerized bulldozer."
Moreover, Mr. Tanaka was famous for his ability to empathize,  as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               another former prime minister, Yasuhiro Nakasone, once recalled in a book.
"I can never match  Mr. Tanaka in his power to attract people and care for others,"  he wrote.
Mr. Tanaka became  prime minister in July 1972 with the  support of his close friends.

While serving as  prime minister, Mr. Tanaka depended on money politics.
During the Diet election in 1974, he pressured large companies to contribute  election funds by assigning candidates of the Liberal Democratic Party who the companies should support.
Public criticism became fierce.
Bungei Shunju, a Japanese monthly magazine on current affairs, published an article unfolding his corrupt money－ and contact － lines in November 1974, critically damaging his political career.
Even after he resigned as  prime minister the following month,  he was found to be involved in the bribery scandal of the Lockheed Corp.

The 
Coincidentally, Bungei Shunju originally reported that case.
Two years ago, a journalist based in America insisted that Cho Joong-hoon, the honorary chairman of the Hanjin Group, provided 300 million yen to then-Prime Minister Tanaka on behalf of then-President Park Jung Hee to appease Japanese displeasure over the kidnapping incident.
I wonder which argument is true, or if both of them are  true.

 In a coincidence, Kim Jong-pil, the honorary president of the United Liberal Democrats, who was sent to Japan to resolve the incident as a special envoy in November 1973, is now in Japan.
I believe that some people who know what  happened behind the scenes at the time of the kidnapping incident are still alive in Japan.
Why doesn't Mr. Kim  investigate the  incident and let our people know what happened?