In Germany today, youth violence is usually associated with the extreme right-wing and the victims are often foreigners living in Germany.
But the left wing engaged in even more violent activities during the 1970s and '80s, and the methods used were crueler.
Until the Red Army Faction was finally broken up in 1992 after German reunification destroyed its Eastern safe haven, left-wing terrorist activities against "the agents of the military-industrial complex" were frequent.

The student movement, a worldwide phenomenon in 1968, was especially fierce in Germany.
After Rudi Dutschke, a German leader of the movement, was shot in West Berlin on April 11, 1968, demonstrations spread throughout the country.
Two students were killed in Munich.
Demonstrations protesting the killing of Mr. Dutschke spread to Paris, London, Amsterdam, New York City and Toronto.

As the fever of the student movement eased in the 1970s, the Socialist German Student Union, the leading group behind such demonstrations, was broken up but one hard-line faction went underground and continued its armed struggle.
This group was called the "Baader-Meinhof Gang" because  Ms. Meinhof succeeded, in May 1970, in helping Mr. Baader escape from police custody.

At that time, there were also other radical militant groups less violent and drastic than the German Red Army Faction.
They chose to carry out unlawful occupations and street battles in waging their  anti-nuclear, anti-imperialism and pro-disarmament war.

Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister, recently ran into political difficulties because of his past activities as a member of a militant group in his youth.
Photographs of Mr. Fischer, then a young radical militant, violently confronting a police officer 27 years ago, were publicly revealed last week.
Then additional incidents in his past, such as one in which a policemen was seriously injured by a Molotov cocktails in 1976, unfolded in turn.

The opposition party strongly pressured him to resign.
Although Mr. Fischer said that his participation in a street battle with the police had been "a bad mistake," his apology does not seem to have satisfied the public.
While 72 percent of Germans still believe that he should not resign, public esteem for Mr. Fischer, who was one of Germany's favorite politicians, sharply plummeted.
Many argue that a person who hit a policeman, a symbol of national power, should not be allowed to serve as the foreign minister of a country governed by law.

The circumstance may not be the same, but the recent incident in Germany shows the differences in German and Korean society.
We consider the history of student demonstration as a badge of courage.
We should be aware that it is time for us to stop lauding those who continue to injure the police in violent demonstrations.