Eo Yun-jung, the special envoy of King Kojong of Chosun Dynasty, visited Japan as a member of a delegation to inspect new products in 1881.
At that time, Japan had already begun modernizing its economy and government following the Meiji Reform 16 years earlier.
Mr. Eo especially focused on the bureaucracy of Japan during his study tour.
He believed that the driving force behind Japan's growing wealth and military strength was the effectiveness of its bureaucratic system.
He particularly studied the role of the Ministry of Finance, and later wrote a book based on his analysis and observation of the ministry after his return to Korea.

Establishment of the Japanese Ministry of Finance, which the special envoy from Chosun had greatly admired, was not a sudden outcome triggered under the Meiji Reform.
The ministry's origins dated to 701, when the Japanese government formed a centralized government system of ministries by copying the Tang Dynasty of China.
At that time, the Japanese government empowered the finance ministry with managing not only financial affairs but also weights and measures.

 Entering the current New Year, Japan has carried out a full-scale reorganization of its central government system, including a restructuring of the Finance Ministry, which has under gone few major changes in 1,300 years.
The ministry, in fact, has enjoyed the power equivalent to - and maybe greater than - the sum of powers held by the Department of Treasury, Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Securities and Exchange Commission and General Accounting Office in the United States.
Based on the recent reorganization of the central government, the Ministry of Finance became "the New Ministry of Finance," changing its Japanese name to "Zaimusho."
The ministry no longer serves the function of formulating financial policies and planning national budgets.
The legendary government agency, long considered unbreakable, has finally been broken.

Despite the old ministry's reputation that it employed the most able bureaucrats who led Japanese modernization and economic development after the World War II, finance officials were severely criticized by the public when reports of corruption were aired in 1990s.
As Japan's bubble economy imploded, a public consensus grew that the origin of the ongoing economic downturn was rooted in the collusion between politicians and bureaucrats.
The public blamed the former Finance Ministry for standing at the center of the crisis.

Now Japan has shrunk its government from 21 ministries and agencies to 12.
We should pay special attention to Japan at start of the new century and to its drastic government reform.