Martin Carhill, known as the thief of the century, was born in 1949 in Dublin, the capital of Ireland.
He had special skills of robbery techniques seemingly beyond human power and broke new ground in the science of theft.
He opened the vault of a bank as if it was his own safe.
When he felt that the process of his trial seemed unfavorable, he broke into the courthouse and stole records and evidence for the trial.
He once robbed an entire art museum.
Until he was shot by an unidentified man and died at the age of 45, his robberies netted him some $60 million, and that was only the amount officially confirmed by the police.
Sometimes he distributed his stolen goods to the needy neighbors, calling it the distribution of tax revenue.
Although the police formed a special task force to keep a close watch on him 24 hours a day, they never stopped him.
Mr. Carhill became a legendary figure among the thieves because of his elusiveness and skill.
In 1998, Irish director John Boorman made a movie, "The General," based on the life of Mr. Carhill.
The movie title came from Mr. Carhill's nickname.

In psychiatry, kleptomania is identified as a compulsion to steal having no relation to need or the monetary value of the object.
It is a repetitive compulsion in which one experiences an increase in anxiety when the urge to steal is suppressed.
A patient suffering from kleptomania can only feel relief after he or she steals something.
In most cases, sufferers from kleptomania have enough money to buy the goods they want to steal.
Mr. Carhill, who became financially well-to-do as a result of his larceny, occasionally stole and gave a toy to a child.
But 
Scholars reported that about five percent of kleptomaniacs become professional robbers in real life.

The public paid a great deal of attention to the motives of Cho Se-hyung's crime in Japan.
Mr. Cho used to be called "the thief of the century," and was recently arrested in Japan for robbery.
Some see the recent incident as the inevitable outcome of kleptomania.
However, there are so many suspicious aspects surrounding this event.
There seems to be some public opinion which is reluctant to see a thief - somewhat similar to Robin Hood in Korean society - becoming a pilferer.
Although there is such sentiment, it is still important to remember that a thief is still nothing more than a thief.
The legend of a Korean Robin Hood is only a fiction created by the press.

Currently, Korean society is severely stirred up by politicians who diverted tremendous amounts of tax raised national wealth to election fund, as if the money was from their own pockets.
We may need to think of who the real thieves are.