A story of an American businessman who left the entire sum of enormous wealth to society enriched a newspaper otherwise flooded with gloomy news.
According to the international press, the will of John D. Hollingsworth Jr., who died on December 30, was read a few days ago.
Surprisingly, he donated his entire estate of over $400 million to a university and other charities.
The will provided nothing for his daughter, his only child.
He left $250,000 each for his grandchildren in a college trust fund.
It may be news difficult to believe for those who are used to our society's nearly invariable practice of leaving wealth to our children.
When Mr. Hollingsworth was alive, he lived a frugal life in a small trailer behind his plant.

The founder of the tradition contributing personal wealth garnered from a successful business was Andrew Carnegie, the "Steel King."
In 1901, Mr. Carnegie sold his steel company and established a foundation to support the building of public libraries throughout the United States.
Since then, large numbers of charity foundations, including the Rockefeller and Ford foundations, have been established.
Last year, Bill Gates, CEO of Microsoft and one of the richest men in the world, donated $50 billion to the foundation he and his wife established, ranked high on the list of contributors worldwide.
In the United States, contributions by wealthy people is considered a part of noblesse oblige.

There has been strong criticism that America was the origin of neo-liberalism, where the strong prey on the weak and the rich get richer while the poor get poorer.
Despite this criticism, some say that a pillar of American society is the culture of donations.
In 1999, the total amount of charity donations made in the United States was $190.16 million, and the average donation per U.S citizen amounted to $578.
In particular, we should pay special attention to the fact that U.S. donations through charity foundations only amounted to 22 percent of the total, while the rest was made by individual contributors who donated small amounts of money.
Statistics show that 98 percent of U.S. citizens participate in making charitable contributions in some form.

In Korea, the CEO of Mirae Corporation, Chung Moon-soul, known as "the godfather" in venture capital circles, recently announced that he would retire, giving up the right to transfer management rights to his children.
He revealed his intention to spend his rest of life in supporting charity.
It certainly gives a new and fresh direction to our society, where disputes about illegal and shortcut inheritances and power struggles to win management rights of large companies are rampant.
He must have cast all his worries aside along with his greed.
Life, sharing and doing favors for others is definitely beautiful.