Students once asked Confucius what a man of virtue was.
He replied that such a man would be someone with moral courage, unshaken by selfish interests.
He said such a man would be honest and have fortitude in the face of any trials, and he added that such a man must be sparing with words.
Confucius then pointed out that, in accordance with his analects, such a person might not be a man of perfect virtue, but he would be close to that.
He added that a  flatterer who pays lip service is hardly a man of virtue.
He advised those making new friends and contacts to avoid such a man.

Ancient sages in both the East and West share the principle of avoiding flattery and lip service in their quest to achieve perfect virtue.
This year, Koreans will celebrate the 500th anniversary of the birth of the famous Korean scholar Lee Hwang.
Toegye, the nom de plume of that ancient sage, was an erudite Confucianism scholar who lived his entire life observing Confucius' lesson in order to be a virtuous man.

On New Year's Day morning, the Korea Broadcasting System aired a special TV program that used a modern approach and interpretation of the lessons taught by Toegye.
"Good Morning, Mr. Toegye" opened the door to the 21st century.
KBS fulfilled its duty as a public broadcasting station.

Although Toegye declined offers of government positions 79 times during his 70-year life, remaining aloof from material success, his refusal did not mean that he was never a part of officialdom.
After passing the national examination for a government position, he started his career as a high-ranking public servant, sometimes accepting positions from the king and other government officials.
Toegye was not like  Cho Sik, who was also a leader of Sung Confucianism and espoused the doctrines of Chu Tzu during the Chosun era.
Mr. Cho was never part of the officialdom but instead did his best to educate new generations.

Toegye once said that "wealth and prosperity are like floating clouds, while honor is nothing but a fly."
He also said that a public servant lacking self-discipline and knowledge was like a thief plundering the nation's wealth.
He placed great stress on self-respect, saying that a man should deal with any situation with integrity and morality.

Confucius placed a high priority on the governance of the country, urging the government to employ great care and thought in affairs of state so as to win the trust of the people.
Such a policy is in line with the principle of respect that Toegye emphasized .

Korean society today is dominated by politicians who betray the public trust, and public servants whose main goal is to retain their government positions.
Toegye's advice to a Chosun society in political chaos 500 years ago is clearly still valid today.

By Bae Myung-bok,  bmbmb@joongang.co.kr