In year 2001, the first year of the 21st century, I recall the movie, "2001: A Space Odyssey," based on the novel by Arthur Clarke and directed by Stanley Kubrick.
In the introduction of the movie, a club wielded by a primitive man flies to the sky and is transformed into a space shuttle probing Jupiter.
Acomputer of character is introduced and a super-intelligence managing all affairs of the universe manifests itself in the movie.
Yet, the future pictured and warned of by Mr. Clarke has not come to pass.

Instead, the shadow of the last century weighs heavy on the world.
The British historian EricHobsbawm named his book interpreting 20th century history "Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914~1991."
In his intro-duction, celebrated scholars made gloomy evaluations on the past century.
Isaiah Berlin, a British philosopher, recalled the 20 th century as the most cruel century in Western history, while Rene Dumont, a French ecologist, called the past century the century of massacres and wars.
Sir William Golding, 1983 Nobel Laureate in Literature, evaluated the 20th century as the most violent century in human history.

Only the Novel Prize-winning scientists made positive  evaluations of the past century.
Rita Levi -Montalcini of Italy said revolutions occurred to improve lives, and a fourth class has emerged, as women were released from several centuries of oppression.
Severo Ochoa, a Spanish scientist, summarized the most fundamental change of the past century as the progress of science.

Korean readers may feel the remarkable change because the book, first published in 1994, called Korea the most successful case among the success stories of third world countries.

Now, what will be the picture of 21st century society?
Jacques Attali, a famous French intellectual, predicts how society would change in the 21st century in his recent book, "Dictionary of the 21st Century."
According to Mr. Attali, society in the 21st century will be brilliant, joyous, and happy, yet barbarous.
He says society in the new century will be unexpected, extraordinary and impossible to live in.
He expects that people will be freed in the 21st century; while society will be religious, it will maintain neutrality between religions.

As Mr. Attali said in this book, the future can never be foreseen; rather, it depends on our work.
Hoping that warm hearts would be the driving force moving our hands, I read a poem, "When The New Year Comes," 
"When the new year comes, let us be never ashamed of ourselves before children, flowers, clouds, stars, grasses, trees and good animals, until the end.
"