Banboku Ohno was a politician who controlled Japanese politics behind the scenes after Japan was defeated in World War II.
In the 1950s, he played a critical role in forming the Liberal Democratic Party, the giant ruling party, by calling together the conservatives in cooperation with other conspicuous figures in the political world such as Bukichi Miki.
Mr. Ohno assumed key posts in the LDP including secretary general, chairman of general council and vice president during his political career and once served as the speaker of the Diet.
He was elected a lawmaker for 13 terms.
He was famous for a harsh remark to politicians who failed in reelection bids.
While serving as the LDP secretary general, he gathered the defeated lawmakers after an election and said, "Even if a monkey falls from a tree, the monkey is still a monkey.
However, if a lawmaker fails to win an election, he is no longer a lawmaker.
Let's meet again if you win the next election."
Although he only served as a state minister of the Hokkaido Development Agency, he was so influential that people called him by the nickname "minister maker."
Shin Kanemaru is another famous example of a man with political characteristics similar to Mr. Ohno's.

Mr. Ohno was born in 1890 in Gifu prefecture, in the central inland region of Japan.
When the Tokaido Shinkansen high-speed railroad construction project was launched in 1959, Mr. Ohno exercised his influence so that a bullet train station would be built in his hometown.
The train route was rearranged and the Gifu-Hashima station was built.
Although residents in his hometown welcomed this outcome, the Gifu-Hashima station has recorded the lowest rate of users among the 16 bullet train stations connecting the Tokyo and Shin-Osaka stations.
The station in Gifu-Hashima became famous as a product of political pressure, and earned the nickname of "Ohno station."
Mr. Ohno died in 1964, only a few months before the bullet trains went into operation.

Recently our National Assembly has been the focus of public criticism by increasing the budget for next year.
Lawmakers increased the budgets for the Cholla provinces in return for also raising the budget for the Kyongsang provinces.
The United Liberal Democrats also put forth their best efforts to increase budgets in their electoral districts.
It is, of course, natural that lawmakers would try to increase the budget for their own electoral districts, but it is too much to ask for increase in more than 140 budget items.
Sooner or later, streets and train stations named after the Grand National Party, Millennium Democratic Party and the ULD may appear throughout the nation.
Is it really normal to allocate limited national funds in this way?
I even feel paying taxes is a waste of money after observing these shameful practices of our politicians.