On Sunday, Suh Jhung-joo, a famous Korean poet born in 1915, had to depend on an oxygen mask to maintain life.
"He would choose the best timing for his departure from this world," said a friend of Mr.
Suh while taking care of the dying poet at the hospital.
Just after 11:00 p.m. the same day, Mr.
Suh, who was also well known under the nom de plume of Midang, smiled brightly and softly repeated "I am fine, I am fine."
Then, he breathed his last breath.
As he closed his eyes, snowflakes fluttered in the air.
Midang, who wrote over 1,000 pieces of heartwarming, touching poems, died the night of Seoul's first heavy snowfall.
He atoned for his sins and forgave his critics on his deathbed on Christmas Eve.

People who shared a close relationship with him somewhat expected his death after his beloved wife, Bang Ok-suk, died in October.
For the 60 years of their marriage, especially the last years, they loved each other with all their hearts.
After his wife passed away, Midang collapsed on his bed as if he could never be motivated to live any further.
Everyday on his sickbed he seemed to be thinking of where his wife was .
Then, he left on his journey to the world after death, following his wife who had moved on first.

Midang wrote many pieces of beautiful poetry reminding his wife of his love.
His life was so innocent that he wanted to follow the path of his wife after she died.
Drawing on his innocence, he showed the true and pure nature of the Korean language in his poetry and touched the hearts of many readers.
Although he was the doyen of Korean literary circles and was commonly referred to among Koreans as "the authority of poetry" for his rich poetic language, he lived a life reminding us of that of an innocent child.

At his last interview before his death, he said he hoped "to stay forever a young lover of literature."
But some parts of our society had reservations about Midang's life and literary works because he wrote some pro-Japanese poems and made some comments supporting the authoritarian leadership of the Chun Doo Hwan administration.

But Lee Mun-ku, a novelist, interpreted Midang's past from a different angle when he wrote a tribute to the poet.
Mr. Lee wrote that "when questioned about the reason why he wrote pro-Japanese poems during the colonization period, he answered that he had never realized that our country would be freed so early."
According to Mr. Lee, " It was an explanation only he could provide.
If we expect any more than his answer, then our expectation is nothing more than a trick to force a deceptive answer from him."
Mr. Lee, who once criticized Midang's pro-Japanese poetry, also wrote that he would rather offer a glass of wine to the deceased than to blame him.
Let us contemplate Mr. Lee's testimonial.