The movie "Billy Elliot" takes place in a mining town in northeastern England in 1984.
Facing the fierce restructuring of the mining industry led by the British prime minister at the time, Margaret Thatcher, Elliot's father and and elder brother join a miners' strike.
The movie touched the hearts of viewers by describing Billy's childhood.
He was raised in a poor family but slowly developed a passion for ballet.
Another movie, "Brassed Off," is also famous for critically pointing out the Thatcher administration's policy of trying to shut down mining towns.

It was the Soviet Union's news agency, Tass, which first gave Mrs.  Thatcher the nickname "the Iron Lady."
She was once referred to as the only man in the Conservative Party.
Former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt gave her the nickname of  "Rhino."
She also was famous for another nickname, TINA, because she determined to wage the Falkland Islands War in 1982 by saying "There Is No Alternative" at a cabinet meeting.

As movies such as "Billy Elliot," "Brassed Off" and "The Full Monty" － another movie with a background of the declining iron and steel industries of England in the mid-1980s － describe, the  Thatcher administration critically damaged the power of labor unions.
The famous miners' strike that started in March 1984 and went on for a year ended with extremely high financial losses and thousands of  injuries.
But the Thatcher administration strongly held to its policy.

 The leaders of the miners' union finally surrendered to the consistent government policy, internal disruption among union members and opposition from ordinary people.
As a result, the Conservative Party won 145 more seats than the Labour Party in the parliamentary election of 1987.
Mrs. Thatcher also became the first prime minister to serve three terms since early in the 19th century.
On the other hand, the unions lost public trust and support.
A few days ago, President Kim Dae-jung emphasized at a cabinet meeting that "England overcame its crisis under the leadership of then-Prime Minister Thatcher.
We should never postpone reform because of the immediate need to relieve the people's pains."
But  it is somewhat embarrassing to mention the Thatcher administration and its policies when reviewing the recent negotiations and outcome of restructuring efforts carried out by our government.
Reforming the financial sector, the government seemed to yield greatly to  labor unions, although it was obvious that ordinary citizens would have to be responsible for the aftermath.
If this bad practice continues, the government may be criticized 