I was extremely surprised a few days ago after watching on CNN that the U.S. President-elect George W. Bush had designated Condoleezza Rice, a professor at Stanford University's political science department, as his national security adviser.
I was not surprised because she is Afro-American or an unmarried female professor.
I was amazed because of an event dating back one and a half years.

Samuel Huntington, a professor of international relations at Harvard University and the author of "The Clash of Civilizations," visited Korea in July 1999.
He was invited to speak at the first round of the Yumin Memorial Lectures, held by The Yumin Cultural Foundation.
At that time, I prepared for the event and had a chance to talk with him for many hours during his three day stay in Seoul.
It was an extraordinary experience.

I had a dinner with him on his first night in Seoul, and the conversation naturally touched on various subjects including the political situation in Korea, inter-Korean relations, politics in Northeast Asia and the United States.
Then the U.S. presidential election in 2000 came up.
Although it was about one and a half years before the election, Mr. Huntington predicted that Mr. Bush would be the next president of the United States.
Even before  Mr. Bush was nominated as the Republican Party candidate, Mr. Huntington made an accurate prediction that Mr. Bush and the Democratic Party candidate Al Gore would be the prominent candidates and Mr. Bush would eventually win with a small margin of votes.
It was such a spot-on prediction.

Some may say that the probability of guessing the winner would be 50 percent, because it was still somewhat possible to predict that either Mr. Bush or Mr. Gore would definitely be the next president.
However, this was not the case.
His analysis was extremely scientific and persuasive.

The more impressing comments followed.
He said that Mr. Bush would designate Condoleezza Rice as his national security adviser and recommended that I start contacting her,  because it would benefit the 
Because of this personal memory, I became extremely curious whether Mr. Huntington's prediction on the appointment of the national security adviser would be correct after Mr. Bush won the election.
My curiosity was soon replaced by a deep admiration of the informed foresight of Mr. Huntington.

It is difficult for us to find a scholar who has the wisdom to foretell the future of the nation even a few days in advance, let alone one and a half years before the fact.
Then again, what would we do if we had such scholars?
Political leaders, who are not farsighted, would never listen anyway.