Korean university students often hold end-of-semester parties with their professors.
Now, parties celebrating the end of any collective task have become common practice in Korean society.
Although those parties are held with a good intention to celebrate the completion of a mission, people often drink excessively and suffer from hangovers the following day.

Several Korean newspapers published photos of the U.S. Vice President Al Gore, who ultimately lost the presidential election, dancing at a party celebrating the end of the election.
At the party, held at the vice president's mansion, many supporters showed up to show their allegiance to him.
There was an impressive picture of him, sleeves rolled up, dancing and laughing cheerfully.
His intent might have been to boost the atmosphere, which could easily have turned depressing due to the election outcome, but his action indicates that he was ready to start life anew.

Two hours before the party, Mr. Gore made his concession speech at the Old Executive Office Building in Washington.
In his speech he said that "Now the U.S. Supreme Court has spoken.
Let there be no doubt, while I strongly disagree with the court's decision, I accept it."
He continued that "for the sake of our unity as a people and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the strength of our democracy, I offer my concession."
His speech was impressive and touching.
He reached out to the world, saying "To our fellow members of the world community: Let no one see this contest as a sign of American weakness.
The strength of American democracy is shown most clearly through the difficulties it can overcome."
The next day, Thomas L. Friedman, a columnist for the New York Times, backed up Mr. Gore's determination.
In his column, "Medal of Honor," published last Friday, Mr. Friedman wrote: "If Chinese or Russian spies are looking for the most valuable secret they can steal in Washington, here's a free tip: Steal Al Gore's speech.
For in a few brief pages it contains the real secret to America's source of power.
It is the enduring rule of law and institutions that underlie them all, and that allows each to flourish no matter who is in power."
On Sunday, Kwon Roh-kap, the leader of Donggyo-dong faction of the ruling party - loyal, long-time supporters of President Kim Dae-jung - stepped down from his position as a supreme council member.
"As I believe I am destined to sacrifice myself for the good of the country, the party and the president, I will not make any comment, though I have much to say."
His speech somewhat reminds one of the speech by Mr. Gore.
However, there remains something to be seen, since the secrets of the United States is on the basis of rule of law and institutions, while that of Donggyo-dong faction is not.
It is a matter of one's dignity and integrity that one does his best for his country.