Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany recently unveiled in Warsaw, Poland, a statue of Willy Brandt, the former West German chancellor, falling to his knees.
The statue stands right next to a simple granite slab that memorializes the 500,000 Jews from the old ghetto who were massacred by the Germans during World War II.
The small square in front of the statue was named after Willy Brandt.

On the bitter cold Monday morning of Dec. 7, 1970, Mr. Brandt, then the chancellor, visited the Jewish memorial in Warsaw, becoming the first leader of West Germany to do so, and fell to his knees.
For those 30 seconds that he was kneeling on the cold stone, his face was immobile.
"No people," as he once said, "can escape from their history."
On that day, Mr. Brandt apologized from the bottom of his heart for the wrongdoings of the Germans in words more sincere than any compensation.

Asked why he knelt, he answered, "From the bottom of the abyss of German history, under the burden of millions of victims of murder, I did what human beings do when speech fails them."
After he knelt in Warsaw, only 41 percent of the West German population supported his action, while 48 percent believed that it went too far.
Influential newspapers and magazines published the photograph with no accompanying article, testifying to the displeasure of the German people.
In 1970, it required tremendous courage for such a person to carry out such a move.
His apology to Poland which extended to the world and his Ostpolitik ?
literally, opening to the East ?
which he pressed throughout his political career, later contributed greatly to the feat of German reunification.
Because some Germans truly reflected on their wrongdoings during World War II, countries surrounding Germany - especially the former Soviet Union, which held the key to reunification ?
allowed it to come about.

When Mr. Brandt died in 1992, two years after reunification, not only Germans but also the entire world expressed deep sorrow.
The Women's International War Crimes Tribunal ruled this week that the late Emperor Hirohito was guilty of crimes against humanity, including slavery, murder and racial discrimination.
The statement clearly branded the late Japanese emperor, who died in 1989, as a war criminal.
The integrity and pride of the emperor as a direct descendant of the sacred family have been seriously damaged.
Although the ruling was a symbolic statement with no binding power, Japan's government and citizens should definitely feel a serious burden.
Why has the world treated the two deceased leaders, in such different ways?
The Japanese people may know the answer better than anyone else.