King Myeongjong of the Chosun Dynasty, enthroned when he was 12-years-old, was at the mercy of his mother, Queen Munjeong, who interfered in political affairs for the entire 22 years of her son's reign (1545 to 1567).
The unofficial history of Chosun Dynasty recounts how the king's mother would call upon him to issue edicts and even slap him when he did not do what she ordered.
She continued to manipulate the king even after stepping down as Queen Regent.
The queen's younger brother, Yun Won-hyeong, followed his sister's lead and wielded enormous power over the monarch.
He even played the major role in Eulsa Sahwa - the fourth and final purge of Confucian scholars during the Chosun Dynasty - by impeaching and massacring the rival faction.
He attained great personal wealth through commerce and corruption.
At one point, he had 15 houses in Hanyang, then the capital city.
The king was so diminished that government officials were free to pursue their self-interests and desires.
Innocent citizens suffered from gangs of robbers and Japanese pirates.
The country became impoverished as time went on.
In the 11th year of King Myeongjong's reign, Jo Sik, whom Confucius scholars looked up to as their spiritual leader, was appointed as the magistrate of Danseong, a county in North Chungchong Province.
Instead of accepting the position, he instead wrote an appeal to the king.
"The foundation of our country collapsed and public opinion had already estranged from the government long ago," Jo Sik wrote.
"Senior government officials are dazzled by wealth and corrupt.
The queen is just a widow in the palace, and your royal highness just the young son of the late king.
How can your royal highness win the hearts of the people at this point?
The way to reset the serious condition of our country does not consist in all sorts of laws, but depends on the ability of your royal highness to make up his mind just once."
Hundreds of years have passed, but a letter posted on the homepage of the Blue House, recalled the scholar's appeal.
An incumbent public servant recently wrote to the president, reminding him of Jo Sik's letter.
"You are nothing but an old man living in the recesses of a palace surrounded by a human wall that keeps you from communicating with the outside world."
The letter states that those "around the president are doing nothing but fighting to win power and influence."
The writer advises the president that "the only way to correct the current condition of our country is for him to give up his party affiliation, and carrying out policies consistently without political motives."
This letter captured the public's attention because it was written 