Michael Milken was called the "junk bond king" in the United States during the 1980s.
He was also famous for treating his staff rigorously and strictly.
After his graduation from University of California, Berkeley and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Milken entered Drexel Burnham Lambert, a securities company, in 1970.
After being promoted to an executive position in 1978, he moved to Los Angeles with his team and started a junk bond trading operation.

Everyone in Milken's office operated on adrenaline from 4:30 a.m. until 8:30 p.m., the hours dictated 
Because of the stress, one employee smoked four packs of cigarette a day.
Another thought that his telephone had been disconnected in the middle of conversation, but later saw that he unconsciously gnawed through the telephone line because of the pressure he was under.
Mr. Milken became a legend on Wall Street by adopting a new method of searching out companies which were promising but could not issue corporate bonds due to their low credit rating.
Drexel Burnham Lambert became a giant in the securities industry.
Mr. Milken's yearly income reached $550 million at one point, based on his tremendous success in high-yield bond trading.

When U.S. authorities began to investigate him in November 1985, Mr. Milken's fortunes suddenly reversed.
He was indicted on 98 charges, including fraud, in 1989.
He was charged with insider trading and deceiving investors and customers.
In 1990, he pleaded guilty to some of the charges and paid $650 million in fines, penalties and restitution and was sentenced to 10 years in prison.
During this period, Drexel Burnham Lambert went bankrupt.
Mr. Milken was paroled after serving 22 months on the condition that he would be barred from the securities business for the rest of his life.

The U.S. press reported last weekend that Mr. Milken has been lobbying to receive a presidential pardon, seeking support from President Clinton's most generous financial benefactor,who happen to be his old friend.
The press also reported that controversy was growing inside the United States about the fallout from pardoning a financial defrauder like Mr. Milken in return for questionable political contributions.
American society always thoroughly and persistently punishes financial defrauders who victimize investors.
No businessmen can afford to accumulate huge amounts of secret funds in American society, nor do they even dream of bribery as a way to gain favors from political circles.
Although there have been some press reports on the political ambitions of individual prosecutors,  no doubts were raised  about the process of the prosecutors' investigations.
It never became a topic of scandal and gossip, unlike the case with the Korean prosecution.