A collection of petroglyphs was found on a rocky stone cliff called Bangudae on the upper Taehwa River in Ulsan in 1972.
They were engraved on sandstone with various figures depicting human beings hunting whales, tigers and deer.
The ancient rock carvings were designated as National Treasure 285 in 1995 for their value in providing a significant insight into the prehistoric era in Korea.

The top group of carvings portray a fishing scene with boats, harpoons and nets along with depictions of 60 whales.
Researchers suggest that Ulsan bay, especially the Taehwa River area, could have been one of the world's oldest whaling bases.
The petroglyphs contain three different carving styles and  methods of expressing symbols, suggesting that they were carved between the late Neolithic Age and the late Bronze Age.

Most of all, these petroglyphs are a rare window to view our ancestors' lives and culture in the prehistoric age, an insight which is difficult to find elsewhere.
They are an important and valuable record left by our ancestors.
We can see that our ancestors prayed for fecundity and fruitfulness through the exaggerated expression of male and female reproductive organs and animals either pregnant or mating.
Moreover, we can compare and contrast the Bangudae petroglyphs with other petroglyphs found in Siberia to research the migratory route of our ancestors.
They also suggest the kind of prehistoric incantations and ceremonies  by which our ancestors maintained a relationship of mutual survival with animals.

Unfortunately, the Bangudae petroglyphs are now under water for eight months every year because of a dam built before their discovery.
Therefore, researchers are worried that more remains of petroglyphs may be exposed to air and water.
The city of Ulsan recently proposed to build a tourist park around the Bangudae petroglyphs.
Experts in history, archeology and anthropology strongly criticized the proposal because of the possibility of destroying the remains.
They urge the city government to  preserve the original form of the petroglyphs, which have become increasingly damaged by flooding.

The prehistoric age left no written data.
Archeological remains such as the Bangudae petroglyphs are the only way to study the prehistoric era.
We and our ancestors from the prehistoric age share the same roots of human consciousness, dreams and prayers.
Our ancestors engraved all the creations in the universe and their hope to live a harmonious life as well as prayers of fruitfulness on the rock towering beside the river.
We should take care that no plans triggered 