The sound of ringing bells reverberates throughout the streets of Seoul again this winter.
We stop at a corner on the street and think of our needy neighbors for a short moment while listening to the sound of the Salvation Army bells.
It is always a pleasure - and a glorious joy - to hear the bell ringing.
In December of 1891, Joseph McFee, a Salvation Army captain in San Francisco, was trying to come up with an plan to provide a free Christmas dinner to the 1,000 poor families in his neighborhood.
He placed a large pot at the Oakland ferry landing for passerbys to contribute to charity.
It did not take long to collect money to prepare a hot, filling Christmas dinner for needy people.
Thus, the Salvation Army kettle, a tradition that has spread throughout the world, was first launched.

In 1865, William Booth, a Methodist preacher, started to carry out his mission in the slums of London's East End, where jobless and poor people were huddled in the aftermath of the industrial revolution.
Although he won many converts, his flock still felt uncomfortable in conventional churches.
Therefore, in 1878, Mr. Booth adopted the name "The Salvation Army" for his organization.
Here, missions became "corps," members "soldiers," and ministers "officers."
During the early stages of its establishment, the army tried to expand its religious and social service to others, with its message of "Soup, Soap and Salvation."
The army had put out its best efforts to provide soup for the poor to rescue them from hunger and to provide soap for them to live in a cleaner and healthier environment.
The army also spread the words of God to help them find salvation.

The Salvation Army started its mission in Korea in 1908.
The first corps, a local Salvation Army center, was opened in 1919 in Dangju-dong, Seoul.
Currently, the Army has 210 corps in Korea, 110,000 soldiers and 30 social service centers fighting against social ills,  homelessness and poverty.

The kettle made its first appearance on the streets of Seoul on December 15, 1928.
This year, the Salvation Army started ringing the bells at their kettles Monday on the streets of Korea and will continue its effort to raise charity funds until Christmas Eve.
It has been reported that the army lowered its goal for charity fund raising this year compared to last year as economic hardship has increased in Korea recently.
However, we all can still be certain that the heartwarming tale of hidden angels helping the needy in our society will be repeated this year.
Let's put some change into the Salvation Army kettle on our way home.
We will definitely feel a warm glow in our heart.