"While serving as president, I often dreamed of living a peaceful and leisurely life writing calligraphy, with the faint scent of Chinese ink in the air like old poets and painters, after retiring from the office," said Kim Young-sam at the opening ceremony of his calligraphy exhibition held in Pusan a few days ago.
"However, after completing my presidential term, the world has not afforded me the life of a poet traveling around mountains and rivers."
Some of those in attendance noted a whiff of politics in the air.
A former president and his calligraphy are a fine match, but an aura of politics hovering over such an event is inappropriate.

In Japan, China and Korea, calligraphy has always been at the core of culture.
In Eastern cultures, calligraphy is more than just the act of writing beautifully.
The subtle nuances of calligraphy in Asian cultures and the Western world share some similarities, but in the East the use of the brush stands in contrast to the ink pens of the West.
Ancient Korean scholars, longing to achieve enlightenment, diligently moved their brushes to draw the four plants - plum, orchid, chrysanthemum and bamboo - and practiced calligraphy night and day to polish their style.
Keeping company with the scent of Chinese ink is the obligation of a man of virtue.
To this end, calligraphy in Korea has been definitely more than a simple technique.
It was rather a way to cultivate one's spiritual and moral senses.
Calligraphy in the East was and still is perceived as a high art.

At the turn of every year, front pages of newspapers are decorated with calligraphy by influential figures in our society.
It seems that many politicians wield their brushes in the hopes of becoming influential and powerful.
Sometimes the politicians write ambiguous phrases that befuddle the public.
Kim Jong-pil, the leader of the United Liberal Democrats, wrote "think no evil in daily life," at the beginning of last year.

Calligraphic writing by politicians is not always evaluated on the basis of aesthetic beauty.
Five and a half years ago, a calligraphic work by former president Park Chung Hee was put up at auction for $500 at the Sotheby's in New York.
During the early term of Kim Young-sam's presidency, the price of his calligraphy exceeded 5 million won per piece in Korea.

This time, former president Kim will use the profits raised from the exhibition to help needy neighbors.
Mr. Kim originally planned to build a library on Geoje Island, his hometown.
We support his efforts to help needy people, but would rather he did so without political motivations.
He should keep in mind the famous quote from the first chapter of the Analects of Confucius: "Is he not a man of complete virtue, who feels no discomposure though men may take no note of him?"