Korean literature focuses on people, though the Korean War, political ideologies and the issue of separated families has provided a context for Korean authors.
Jeon Sang-guk, a Korean novelist, wrote a short story, "Unofficial History of Mulgeol-ri," in 1978.
The story takes place in Hongcheon, Kangwon Province, Mr Jeon's home, and is the tale of a  peaceful village thrust into the brutality of the Korean War, with forces from the South and North occupying the village by turns.

Another Korean writer, Lee Ho-chul, describes a village in North Korea occupied by the South Korean military in "Full Tide."
In his story, those who cooperated with the communists were trembling with fear after the South Korean soldiers occupied their village.
The village leader tried to defend the residents who had taken sides or switched allegiances in those confusing times.
"Naked Sculpture," another short story by Mr. Lee, tells the story of brothers who made their way across the 38th parallel.
The brothers were drafted into the South Korean military, and captured by the North during a battle.
The elder brother died on his way to the North.

In his novel "A Misfired Shot," Lee Bom-son portrays an aged mother crying out in sorrow, missing the mountains and rivers in her hometown in the North.
Many elderly separated family members would sympathize with the story.

There were, of course, some people who had firm ideological convictions during the Korean War.
Yeom Sang-jin, a character in Jo Jung-rae's saga "Taebak Mountains," is an example.
Although most Korean literature tells the stories of ordinary people without strong political beliefs, the reunions of separated families held last week became an event for the North to resume its political propaganda.
In addition to the North Korean officials who made inconsiderate and insulting remarks about the leader of South Korean Red Cross, separated family members from the North seemed to have been selected on the basis of their loyalty to the political dogma of the North.
Were South Korean families comforted by hearing their beloved ones repeatedly espouse the glory of the North and praising its leader?
The South Korean government's lukewarm posture towards the North's overly demanding, sometimes even interventionist attitude towards the South is under criticism.
The North should, on its part, recognize that their ideology and values are not the standard for the Korean Peninsula.
The future of reunions could be seriously undermined if the North continues to use them to promote their ideology.
In the spirit of the June 15 Joint Declaration, let us resolve humanitarian issues first and leave ideology on the sidelines for the time being.