Autumn has passed on Mt.
Kumgang, but winter has not yet arrived.
The glorious hues of autumn foliage are no longer visible, but snow has yet to blanket the mountain.
When I recently visited Mt.
Kumgang, a North Korean tour guide embarrassingly started a casual conversation with me by saying that it was the most unpopular and unsuitable season for sightseeing.
Compared to my experience two years ago when the sea route to Mt.
Kumgang was first opened, I sensed a change during my recent tour.
I could feel warm connections between tourists from the South and people in the North.
Two years ago, North Korean tour guides never initiated a conversation.
When South Korean tourists asked them questions, they gave us simple answers in a stiff manner.
Now they are starting conversations with South Korean tourists.
Sometimes they ask questions on world affairs such as the recent U.S. presidential election.
They also asked some interesting and personal questions, such as if we were satisfied with our jobs.
When we asked them about their lives, they answered without hesitation.
Rather than standing at their posts like sentries, they showed tourists around, sometimes holding our hands when walking on a slippery road.

Because North Korean tour guides showed us consideration everywhere we visited, I wondered if they had an ulterior motive.
"Compared to only two years ago, you have changed so much," I said to one of the guides.
He replied that "the South and the North will understand each other only through heart-to-heart talks."
I could feel his hope to achieve reunification through open and honest communication.

A few days ago, separated families from South and North Korea held short reunions after a long wait.

Kim Ki-chang, the acclaimed South Korean painter, met his younger brother from the North last Friday after a long separation.
Mr. Kim, ailing in a hospital, read a letter from his beloved younger sister living in the North delivered by his brother.
"When we hope from the bottom of our hearts, a flower will bloom on a rock," she wrote.
"How can I ever forget the joy and happiness of this day even after I die?"
After watching the reunion of Kim brothers, I recalled a poem 
The long-awaited reunion of the aged brothers seemed as impossible as a flower blooming on a rock.
I also felt the great sorrow, because the aged brothers may only meet again in the next life, just like the poem.

It was during my trip to Mt.
Kumgang that I became sure that reunification is possible as long as the South and North would never close their hearts to each other again.