World Link, the magazine of the World Economic Forum, recently published an article titled "Leading Leaders."
The article nominated  World Link's third annual dream cabinet, a group of 13 "pragmatic and determined politicians moving forward with foresight and courage."
The magazine nominated President Kim Dae-jung as  the chief executive to lead the dream cabinet, recognizing his  attempts to improve relations between North and South Korea.

 Does this really mean that there are no other leaders in our world regarded more highly than President Kim when evaluating experience, insights and abilities?
He was the runner-up last year when the magazine announced a dream cabinet led by British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
Mr. Kim  seems to have a good reason to deplore the fact that Korean society has sometimes withheld its praise  while he has become so highly acclaimed as to be called the "Nelson Mandela of Asia" internationally.

The core lesson of  "Ta-hio" (Great Study) in the "Sze Shu" or "Four Classical Books" from ancient China is that one should educate and improve oneself first, before  maintaining a family and then governing a state and later ruling the world.
Referring to this ancient philosophy, Koreans are now saying that it does not benefit our country when our leader is praised only outside, not inside.
Some have also argued that he should make his top priority domestic affairs  rather than international affairs.
Ssu Ma Chien wrote the first comprehensive history of China, the "Shih Chi," meaning "Historical Record," in the second century B.C.
after he entered the court service of the emperor Han Wu-ti and was appointed grand historian.
In his book, he singled out the critical factor that caused the collapse of the Qin Dynasty as blocked communications between the people and the authorities.

 The great historian wrote that when the emperor had lost rightfulness and behaved in an unreasonable manner, his government officers failed to give honest and sincere advice or to present better policy alternatives.
He noted  that the emperor had never been informed that his state had become disrupted  because his staff failed to make  accurate and straightforward reports.

 Since President Kim has returned from his overseas travels,  we expect that our leaders, including the president, will establish a real turning point in reforming state affairs by accurately grasping the current thoughts of the public mind.

  What we earnestly hope for Mr. Kim is not that he becomes the leader of some magazine's international dream cabinet, but a successful president in leading our country.