In 1996, the Korea Folklore Society held a national scandalmongering competition.
The competitionwas meant to acknowledge the positive and negative roles gossip and insulting language play in Korean culture.
The event attracted people well-versed in the art of verbal warfare and gossip from across the nation.
They hurled epithets and invective at each other the way good friends might engage in highly animated banter.

In every neighborhood there are some housewives who love to meddle in the lives of others andspread gossip.
Rather than being repulsed by the petty, trivial nature of the gossip, people are drawn to it.
It gives them the opportunity to compare their lives and emotions with others.
There is little malice in their words, just a desire to understand the human condition and spread the folly and sorrow that is our existence.
In the same way we slow down to observe a traffic accident, our ears perk up on hearing a juicy item of gossip from the neighborhood yenta.

People love to hear about the foibles and secrets of other people.
The more knowledgeable the gossip monger is, the more he or she commands the attention of listeners.

Gossiping at drinking parties is something of a national pastime.
The subject of the gossip is neverpresent, so people feel free to talk about the good and bad aspects of the person without fear of offending them.
It is a group activity and everyone contributes, evaluating and dissecting the life of the person being talked about.

Koreans used to say that insulting remarks are an expression of love.
Only a friend who cares, after all, would feel comfortable enough and knowledgeable enough to point out the shortcomings of a close friend.
Though the language may seem harsh, it is the intent of the critic to cheer up and advisethe friend.
Park Dong-jin, a singer, counts among his fans people who want to listen to his straightforward but affectionate insults.
Contemporary writers such as Lee Mun-ku and Jo Jung-rae often have characters in their novels use abusive language.
Therefore, the special character of those fictionalized personalities assume a depth and distinctive voice that rings true.

When the intent of severe criticism is to do harm, it is indefensible.
As one proverb goes, people return slander with slander, but return favors with favors.
Our society has been flooded with insulting remarks meant to inflict harm.
The National Assembly has become a hive of invective.
Under the cloak of anonymity, the Internet has become a playground for hateful verbal attacks.
People formerly used gossip and insulting language to constructively criticize friends.
Now it is being used to ruin reputations.