In his book "Power Shift," the American futurist Alvin Toffler listed three sources of power: violence, money and knowledge.
Mr. Toffler said the crudest form of power is derived from violence, while power that comes from knowledge is the highest form.
Knowledge not only gives one the power to influence, but also makes it possible to punish, compensate, persuade others.
Knowledge can change an enemy into an ally and allows one to save reserve physical power and channel that energy into more productive activities.
His argument provides an insightful explanation for how the United States is able now to enjoy a time of unprecedented prosperity － that its nurturing of a knowledge and information based society has made it the paragon of the power of innovation and creativity.

From the ancient times, the Eastern conception of power was based on faith, fate and the will of deities.
In the West too, the monarchs of old believed their power was bestowed on them 
The Enlightenment of the 18th centuries turned the idea of divine rights of kings on its head, when the great thinkers developed the political philosophy of the social contract.
To some, power attained through violence has prevailed in the 20th century.
Mao Zedong, the leader of communist revolution in China, stated that "power comes from the gun,"  echoing a similiar view put forth by Lenin.

"The sovereignty of the Republic of Korea resides in the people, and all state authority emanates from the people," reads the first article of the constitution.
But despite the intent of that constitutional principle, there have been times in our history when the idea that power emanates from the people was ignored.
It has been less than a decade , and after much struggle, that we gained that power in the form of free and fair democratic elections.
Yet Mr. Toffler's assertion that power is also derived from money is all too apparent in our electoral process, in which hundreds of millions of won change hands or land in political slush funds.

In the recent U.S. Presidential election, the issue of soft money － political donations that are not bound by the limits placed on individual donations and which can amount to millions of dollars － have called into question the propriety and fairness of the election process.
Money may well determine who the next resident of the White House is, as both camps retain the best lawyers － and they don't come cheap.
Both camps are forming so-called legal dream teams and soliciting funds to pay for them.

Mr. Toffler asserts that power itself is neither good nor bad, but that it has been abused and has taken on bad smell.
The recent elections in the U.S., cost $3 billion,  a more than 50 percent increase over the elections held in 1996.
Power in U.S. reeks of and is derived from money.