In Italy, "casino" used to describe a community center where people enjoyed singing and dancing.
In the middle of the 19th century, the meaning  changed in Europe to signify a place used for professional gambling.
The principality of Monaco  contributed greatly to that change.
As the ruling Grimaldi family suffered from financial difficulties, Monaco opened its Grand Casino in Monte Carlo, a part of the principality, in 1861  to raise funds.
Gamblers throughout Europe have long rushed to this  gambling palace and, even now, the money spent by gamblers  constitutes the basis of Monaco's revenues.

Las Vegas in the United States has become the world's largest city devoted to gambling.
Last summer, a Korean became a topic of everyone's conversation by winning a jackpot of over 10 billion won while playing a slot machine in Las Vegas.
But a jackpot is nothing more than bait to attract more gamblers.
Officials  estimate that Koreans spend tens of billions of won every year at Las Vegas.
To this end, it may be rather fortunate that  casino fever has been sweeping a small village in Kangwon Province that holds the first casino where South Koreans can legally gamble.

Casino games are extremely diversified, but universally common.
They include  slot machines, a game in which a player inserts coins and pulls the handle in hopes of ending up with symbols of the same pattern; baccarat, in which a player tries to reach  9 with two cards; blackjack, in which a player tries to reach 21 with two or more  cards;  craps, a game playing with dice, and  roulette.
The odds on winning always favor the house, or banker.
In terms of probability,  guests have the highest chances of winning at blackjack, with craps  next.
Mathematicians say that baccarat and roulette are  games in which  players can never beat the house over an extended period.
In 1960, at the general conference of the American Mathematics Society, Edward Thorpe, an American,  elaboratedhis thesis that the best chance of beating the house was to play blackjack and then demonstrated how －  by doubling his $10,000 stake in 30 hours.

It has been reported that the Korean casino, opened at the site of an abandoned mine in Jeongseon,   last month, is crowded with visitors.
We can feel the fever, since there have been guests who visited the casino by arranging helicopter flights there.
Many of the visitors are, of course, playing  for the fun of it, but it seems that a considerable number of people have become addicted to gambling and have lost tens of millions of won.
Doctors diagnose the addiction to gambling as a kind of a disease caused by the malfunction of those parts of the brain that control impulses.
It is difficult to fill a pocket, once it is emptied.