Koichi Kato, 61, the former secretary-general of the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan, has been mentioned as a possible candidate for prime minister for several years.
Mr. Kato is the chairman of the Kato group  － formerly known as the Miyazawa group - the second most powerful faction inside the LDP, and is now believed to wield a great deal of influence and power.
Having started his career in the diplomatic corps, Mr. Kato was subsequently elected to the House of Representatives from Yamagata district, a seat formerly held by his father, in 1972.

In the period between 1995 and 1996,  Korea-Japan relations continued their strained and difficult course, and the interplay between Mr. Kato and Kim Young-sam, the former South Korean president, reflected this.
Mr. Kato, then chairman of the policy research council of the LDP, supported rice shipments to North Korea in the hopes of establishing diplomatic relations with the isolationist nation.
Mr. Kim criticized the policy, seeing it as a veiled attempt to antagonize and exclude the South.

 It also marked the beginning of what some call an emotion-based diplomacy between the two countries.
In September 1995, Mr. Kim expressed his displeasure with the policy by shunning Mr. Kato when members of the LDP visited Korea to attend a nongovernmental forum.
A member of the Japanese press noted at the time that Mr. Kim did not extend his hand to Mr. Kato and instead looked away.

Anti-Japanese sentiment was running high in Korea in November 1995 after Japan's minister of cabinet affairs, Takami Eto, said that Japan's invasion and colonization of the Korean Peninsula had "done some good."
Shortly thereafter, Mr. Kim met with President Jiang Zemin of China and said that Japan should retract and apologize for its leaders' revisionistic rhetoric.
Mr. Kim did mince his words, using what many Japanese regarded as insulting expressions that widened the gulf between the two nations.

Mr. Kato, in turn, made an extremely significant diplomatic gaffe in February 1996 by referring to Mr. Kim in an informal and derisive manner in a speech given in his hometown in Yamagata district.
Diplomats in both the Korean and Japanese foreign ministries were concerned that the verbal jabs would further harm the tempestuous relations between the two countries.
The tension was eventually reduced after Mr. Kato visited Korea and met with Mr. Kim in January 1997.

It now appears that Mr. Kato is weighing in as a contender to be the next Japanese prime minister.
He has approved a proposal that would effectively bring down the current prime minister, Yoshiro Mori.
If he succeeds, it is hoped that he will learn from the past and work to enhance Korea-Japan relations.