The traditional Korean story "Chunhyangjon" revolves around the civil service examination and the lengths to which a mother-in-law goes to ensure that her daughter's husband fares well on the test.

"I pray to the gods of heaven and earth that he can attain high rank so that my daughter Chunhyang can live well," says the mother-in-law, Wolmae.
After washing and arranging her hair, Wolmae prayed at dawn in front of a well for Lee Mong-ryong, her son-in-law, to get the highest score on the state examination.
Little did she know that he overheard her prayers.
When he saw her praying, Lee thought that he "could achieve high office because my ancestors were looking after me."
As a result, parents and students visit the house of Wolmae in North Cholla province during exam season.
The national university entrance examination will be given on Wednesday, and parents and students are praying at Wolmae's altar, built by a local government in the province.
Wolmae's altar is not the only place imbued with wish-granting powers.
In churches and temples across the nation, on sacred mountains and on the banks of storied rivers, people pray that they or their loved ones will do well on the test.

From ancient times, Koreans have, like Wolmae, prayed in front of Jeonghwasu － clear water drawn from a well at dawn for good luck.
Clear water is a metaphor for the purity of thought and sincerity of purpose behind the prayer, and it is also meant to give confidence to those preparing to take the exam.
Such practices have changed over time.
They have regrettably become commercialized, and a range of products are on the market for those who don't have the time to draw water from a well.
A piece of taffy is sometimes affixed to the front gate of a school.
The taffies come in a variety of shapes and each carries a different meaning.
Some are shaped like axes, while others come in the form of playing cards or tissue paper.
Taffy is used because of its adhesive quality, and is symbolic of students who stick to their studies.

Department stores now sell lucky charms and prayer products.
Web sites have sprung up where prayers can be posted in cyberspace － for a price.

There is also a tradition in Japan of praying for a passing grade.
Parents hang strips of prayer papers on trees and shrines.
Stores sell good-luck sweets and charms.

People should not be ridiculed for their attempts to sway gods, ancestors or karma in their favor.
The practice does no harm and probably fulfills an emotional as well as a spiritual need.
We pray for the students who will sit for the exam, particularly those who have prepared with all their hearts.