Germany was the cause of events that shook the 20th century.
World War I and  World War II were devastating and horrible, and the eventual unification of East and West Germany was momentous.
These events still resonate throughout the world.
This may be why there are so many anniversaries and commemorations in Germany.
Some of these anniversaries are days of atonement, when Germans remember the wrongs of the past in order not to repeat them.
Among the anniversaries, or days of remembrance, Nov. 9 is most clearly and deeply carved in the collective German conscience.

On that date, the Berlin Wall － the symbol of the Iron Curtain and the Cold War － was brought down with chisels, hands and hearts.
The moment, seen around the world on live television, is vividly recalled today － 11 years after the event.
At the time the wall seemed as immovable as Mount Everest.
The German people who tore down the wall embraced each other in the act, producing dramatic and emotional images vividly etched in our collective mind.
Germany was officially reunified on Oct. 3, 1990.
Though the fall of the Berlin Wall is remembered in Germany with glee, the same cannot be said for another German day of remembrance that coincidentally falls on the same date in 1938:  Kristallnacht (Crystal Night), when the Nazis burned 267 synagogues and destroyed thousands of Jewish homes and businesses, breaking their windows, which gave the night its name.
About 30,000 Jews were arrested.
Some were beaten, and some 400 were killed, according to some estimates.
This was, by all accounts, the beginning of the Holocaust, in which the Nazis slaughtered 6 million Jews, and hundreds of thousands of others.

Kristallnacht was not the only Nazi-orchestrated incident that occurred in November.
On Nov. 8, 1923, Adolf Hitler, the head of the Nazi party, held a rally at a Munich beer hall and proclaimed a revolution.
His putsch was resisted and put down by the police.
Hitler was arrested and imprisoned at Landsberg.
While in prison, he wrote "Mein Kampf," which became the Nazi manifesto.

On Nov. 9, 1918 － yet another Nov. 9 to remember － German laborers revolted and overthrew Kaiser Willhelm II and the second empire.
Workers instituted the eight-hour work day.

Today in Germany, a nationwide demonstration against right-wing extremists is being held in Berlin.
The German president and prime minister are expected to participate.
In terms of importance, the Germans place a greater emphasis on resisting the forces of evil that brought about the Holocaust than in celebrating the fall of the Berlin Wall.
And we see the light of hope burning in Germany.