A contemporary writer Choe In-ho has turned his pen and considerable mental faculties on the historical figure Lim Sang-ok (1799 - 1855), a merchant and trader during the late Chosun Dynasty.
Mr. Choe argues that In the global economy ideologies and physical boundaries have more or less vanished.
Choe believes that a new economic philosophy is needed in this new era, and recently published a 5-volume work of historical fiction entitled, "Business Morality,"  spanning the life of Mr. Lim based on the historic data and Mr. Choe's creative interpretation.

Starting with one of Mr. Lim's most remembered quotes － "Riches should be distributed as equally as running water flows, while men should behave as righteous as a scale" － Mr. Choe embarks on a journey into the past in order to help us understand what lies ahead in terms of economic possibilities.
Lim Sang-ok was born in 1779 in Uiju, a small city in northern Korea, and worked as a store clerk in his youth.
He became involved in trade with China by the age of 20, and by 1810 had amassed a considerable fortune based on trust and a prudent business sense that won him exclusive rights to the ginseng trade.
He was appointed as the administrator of Kwaksan county in 1832 in recognition of his Samaritanism － he helped the poor and flood victims with his own wealth.
He was later nominated for the governorship of Kusong district, in 1835, but resigned the post due to subordnate officials protests.
In the Chosun dynasty it was inappropriate to appoint a merchant of humble origins to an important government position.
The social order during the period - scholars, peasants, artisans and merchants - continued until the 19th century in Korea.

Mr. Choe's work recounts how Mr. Lim forgave debts and distributed his wealth near the time of his death.
He bequeathed his land to the country.

While telling of Mr. Lim's life, Mr. Choe simultaneously creates － again employing historical fiction － the life and spirit of a 20th century businessman, who turned a small bicycle business into a giant automaker and eventually into one of Korea's largest conglomerates.
Mr. Choe juxtaposes the life of Lim Sang-ok with the founder of the chaebol in "Business Morality."
The writer contrasts the two men in order to remind those who try to monopolize "wealth that should run like water" and, instead of being "righteous as a scale" attempt to increase their wealth without being good Samaritans are destined to meet a tragic end.
The recent corporate restructuring process is a case in point.
If we fail to embrace business morality, and if those with wealth take it to their graves instead of returning it to society, the people will have to shoulder the burden to an ever greater extent.