In 1789, King Louis XVI of France and the royal family became virtual prisoners at Tuileries Palace in Paris as a result of French Revolution.
An attempted escape with Marie Antoinette on August 10, 1792, was thwarted by a mob.
After the failed escape, Louis XVI urged 768 mercenaries, brought to France from Switzerland, to return to their homeland.
The mercenaries called a meeting and determined to remain and protect their retainers as promised.
Facing the angry mob of Parisians, the mercenaries fought to the bitter end － the lot of them were killed in the battles that followed.
A monument was built to commemorate their fealty; "The Dying Lion of Luzern."
It was hewn out of rock in memory of the heroic deaths of the Swiss mercenaries at Tuileries in 1792.
The American writer, Mark Twain, described the monument as "the saddest and most moving piece of rock in the world".

The connection between the French royal family and Swiss mercenaries was succeeded, 40 years after the tragic event took place, by the establishment of La Legion Etrangere in 1831.
The history of mercenaries dates back to the Roman Empire, but La Legion Etrangere was the first foreign legion with a clear system of contracts and chain of command.
The foreign legion, which was formed to carry out French colonial expansion, fought over 30,000 battles, and they still serve France, maintaining the tradition of "honor and fealty" as their trademark.

In the corporate world, there are mercenaries who loyally serve their benefactors, and are richly rewarded for a job well done.
For example, Carlos Ghosn, a Brazilian by birth, has become something of a legend in Japan after becoming the Chief Operating Officer and President of Nissan Motor Company, the nation's second largest automaker.
After the French automaker Renault took over Nissan, Mr. Ghosn, a former vice president of Renault, was appointed as the COO and President of the Japanese carmaker.
When he took the job, he promised he would resign if he could not turn the company around in a year.
Under his tutelage, the company recovered after a year, through bold restructuring － earning Mr. Ghosn the nickname "Cost Killer."
Analysts believe Nissan's recovery was only possibly because Mr. Ghosn was a mercenary － a hired gun whose objectives were clear and unclouded by cultural or political concerns.
Mr. Ghosn's decisiveness was in stark contrast to the Japanese way of forming a consensus before acting.
Japanese newspapers implied that outside corporate leadership could be the most effective way for troubled companies to restructure.
On Friday, 52 ailing Korean companies faced liquidation, receivership, sale or merger.
Are foreign corporate mercenaries needed in Korea as well?