It is difficult to find the right words to express one's feelings upon hearing of the death of someone close.
On the contrary, if the deceased was a public figure, involved in world events, he or she will be written about and eulogized without reservation.
But sometimes the dead leave behind a legacy that deeply affects the living.
The death of Charles Miller, a wealthy Canadian lawyer who died at the age of 73 in 1928, is a case in point.
His last will and testament was laced with malicious jokes, caustic phrases, and more than a smattering of sarcasm.
First, he left his stock in a horse racecourse to a judge and a missionary, both of whom opposed gambling.
(After receiving their windfall, the two made an abrupt about-face and became advocates of the "sport.")
Mr. Miller bequeathed his shares in a brewery, valued at more than $15,000, to the pastors who headed a temperance society.
Among the pastors, strong opponents of drinking, only one rejected the shares.
Mr. Miller, ever the cynic, then willed to three of his acquaintances, who happened to hate each other with a passion, his luxury villa in Jamaica, on the condition that the three use the villa together.
They did so, and, as might be expected, argued for the rest of their lives.

Perhaps the most astonishing part of the will was the clause which would give a large inheritance to any women who bore the most babies in Toronto for 10 years from the date of his death.
Relatives of Mr. Miller contested the will.
They failed.
Mr. Miller was a lawyer, and wrote the document in such a way that no court in the land could overturn it.
After the will was made public, Women began to race to have babies.
After nine months, Toronto hospitals were flooded with the women in labor.
Newspapers published articles, paying special attention to women who bore twins or triplets.
After 10 years, those who had nine children divided the large inheritance.
This is a true story, cited in Charles Panati's "Browser's Book of Endings－The End of practically Everything and Everybody."
It has become something of a national pastime to speculate on a suicide document (at 6 pages it hardly qualifies as a note) left by a former official with the Financial Supervisory Service － a key figure in a bribery scandal.
The document names names.
Those implicated deny involvement.
And there was even an assertion that the handwriting did not match that of the deceased.
Some people breathed a sigh of relief after learning of the death.
But would it not have been more judicious for the man, who obviously had an inside track on the scandal, to acknowledge his role, accept his punishment, and assist the prosecution with bringing others involved in the matter to justice?