In England, 82 people have died from Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy - also known as mad cow disease, stoking fears that the disease could spread throughout Europe.

A 14-year-old girl and an man, aged 74, died from the disease last weekend in Britain.
Europeans are understandably dismayed that there have been more than 100 cases of mad cow disease in France this year.
On Tuesday, the German newspaper, Tagesspiegel, ran a front page item urging the EU to prepare contingency measures for mad cow disease.
The newspaper also published an item, written by the German Agricultural Minister, which called for a ban on French beef.

Although agricultural ministers from Britain and France both maintain that beef from the two countries is safe, people remain wary.
Furthermore, they are worried about their health, because beef has been a dietary staple and their source of protein for ages.

Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease - the medical term for the human form of mad cow disease - paralyzes the central nervous systems.
It usually takes a long time before any symptoms are detected.
Once the disease is detected, it takes anywhere from few months to a few years for the victims to succumb.
Today, there is no known cure for the disease.
People are also worried that Prion, the virus that may cause the disease, or other transmitting agents are not rendered harmless through cooking.
The panic wrought by mad cow disease has an element of human greed and is exacerbated by nationalistic politics.
Cows ruminate on grass and feed.
During my childhood, when I lived in rural area, my mother once yelled at me because I mixed leftover meat broth into the cattle feed.
She told me that cows would never eat such an admixture.

In some countries, however, it is common practice to give cows feed made from the internal organs of lambs to boost their growth.
Knowing as I do from my childhood experience the eating preferences of cows, I am not the least bit surprised that cows resent this unnatural feed, and it seems to me that they may, in their fashion, be taking revenge on their human breeders in the form of this deadly disease.

Although cattle feed with animal byproducts were subsequently prohibited, it was too late - the disease has spread, and is still claiming lives.

There can be a lesson drawn from the mad cow disease outbreak in Europe.
The drive for profit without consideration of consequences is a Faustian bargain, with a price to pay in the end.