In an interview with Mike Wallace of CBS's "60 Minutes" held at the seaside resort of Beidaihe on August 15, Chinese President Jiang Zemin reacted strongly when Mr. Wallace asked why China allowed only a one-party system.
"Why must we have opposition parties?"
Mr. Jiang responded.
"You are trying to apply the American values to the whole world, and you always use your own logic in making judgments about the political situation of other countries, thinking that everywhere in the world the American political system may prevail.
But that is not very wise."
The program was aired on the eve of Mr. Jiang's visit to New York to attend the UN Millennium Summit.
The interview matched the wits of Mr. Jiang and Mr. Wallace.
Mr. Jiang had not given an interview to an American television journalist for 10 years.

 Mr. Jiang, in fact, took exception when Mr. Wallace referred to China as a dictatorship, "Your way of describing what things are in China is as absurd," he said.

 When Mr. Wallace addressed issues related to the freedom of press and human rights, he quoted Mr. Jiang as saying that he has always favored tough government controls on the press.
He also reminded Mr. Jiang of his earlier remark, "The press should be the mouthpiece of the party."
Although Mr. Wallace asked tough questions, Mr. Jiang never lost his composure.

 There was some public reaction, however, when Mr. Jiang recently lost his temper at questions posted by reporters in Hong Kong.
On October 27, Mr. Jiang met with Tung Chee Wha, the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China.
At this meeting, a Hong Kong-based reporter asked Mr. Jiang if he would be involved in the reappointment for Mr. Tung, whose term ends in 2002.
Mr. Jiang abruptly stood up and, in a rage, said, "Your questions are too simple and immature."
He went so far as to reprimand the reporters, telling them that their youth and inexperience were obvious and that they should learn more.
He reminded them, in a manner that could have been perceived as a threat, that they would be held responsible for reporting any comments he made out of context.

 As might be expected, the Hong Kong press corps was none too pleased with Mr. Jiang's admonition.
They insisted that press in Hong Kong was different from Chinese press, and would not abide self-censorship.
Some expressed grave concerns that China was moving to control the Hong Kong press.
Mr. Jiang was patient with Mr. Wallace, an older, respected member of the U.S. press.
Was this respect based on the Confucian tenet regarding respect for the elderly, or was he putting on a kinder gentler face for the American viewing public?