A visitor to an art exhibition currently under way at Toksugung, a palace built during the Chosun Dynasty, will be richly rewarded.
During crisp, clear autumn days, the palace is bathed in bright sunlight, its pathways fluttering with yellow and red foliage.
In addition to the natural splendor and ancient architecture, a modern art exhibition may seem incongruous.
Nevertheless, the ?xposition of Orsay Museum in Seoul - Impressionism and Modern Art' is a most notable exception.
In one of the palace's halls that has often been used as an auxiliary art museum, the exhibition features 70 works by such masters as Manet, Monet, Renoir, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Cezanne.

"The Gleaners," a famous work 
The golden stacks of grain set against the horizon, with women reaping in the background, reminded me of the humble ideals I had in the past.
A reproduction of the painting hung on the classroom wall in the 1960s.

In contrast to the Millet reproduction, the bulletin board in the back of the classroom was filled with photos and diagrams detailing our economic development － the modernization of Korea.
One hundred years ago, France too was pursuing modernization.
Modern art works, which expressed the passion, freedom and resistance of that time, are now on display at the exhibition.

In 1863, when Manet completed "Le Dejeuner sur L'Herbe," which features two men in suits and a nude woman, the poet Pierre Charles Baudelaire described it as a miracle of the modern era.
He said the work was poetic in its sentiment.
Until then, beauty had been represented by depictions of God － the human form in art had yet to achieve a divinity of its own.
For Baudelaire, the period the late 19th century marked the beginning of the modern period in art.
Central to modern art was the freedom of the human spirit and the concept of individual liberty.
Religion, superstition and the divine right of kings were questioned, while a realistic interpretation and observance of the natural world gained recognition.
What inspired these monumental changes were thinkers with humanist ideals.
The modern era relied on a continuous process to build a society founded on a social compact whereby man consented to be ruled so long as he had a say in his own destiny.
By contemplating the likes of Van Gogh, who led a passionate and tortured life and produced some of the world's most beautiful works, to Gauguin, whose work scorned a corrupt system by contrasting it with primitive beauty, we can consider our society, which reached the 20th century after breaking with overlords and waves of authoritarianism.
Let us learn from our humanist predecessors in the West, and carry out a reformation in our society.