Frank X. McNamara, a businessman from Chicago, scheduled a business dinner at a New York restaurant.
After the meal, the waiter presented the bill to Mr. McNamara, who reached for his wallet and discovered that he had left it in his other suit.
Mr. McNamara finessed his way out of the situation, but that night he had a thought: Why should people be restricted to spending what cash they have on hand, instead of being able to spend what they can afford?
In 1950, Mr. McNamara and his partner Ralph Schneider started the first credit card in history, the Diners Club Card.
The name Diners originated from the abovementioned incident.

Diners Club issued the first revolving credit card to 200 customers.
The card was accepted at 27 restaurants in New York.
The credit card company subsequently expanded its service - most notably, in the travel sector.

In fact, a primitive form of credit had been in use from the 18th century.
Haberdashers sold clothes in return for small weekly payments.
In the 1920s, some stores in the United States adopted a "buy now, pay later" system.
Gas stations began issuing credit cards to attract customers as well.

The Diners Club card, however, had the distinction of being the first muti-purpose plastic money for eating, drinking, shopping and traveling.
Stimulated by the success of Diners Club, many credit card companies opened in the United States in 1950s.
But while most soon failed, the American Express card, established in 1958, attracted 500,000 customers in two years.
After the introduction of magnetic strip in 1970, credit cards began to reshape the consumer spending patterns of the American people.

The first credit card in Korea was issued by Shinsegae Department Store for its employees in July 1969.
Due to a lack of awareness and a reluctance on the part of retailers to honor plastic, credit cards were slow to take hold in Korea.
That has changed, and they are now widely used, with many people having several cards.

This year, the seven domestic credit card companies will process 200 trillion won ($179 billion) of sales, compared to 90 trillion won last year.
It seems to be a result of combined efforts to spur consumer spending and enlarge the number of stores where credit cards can be used.
A lottery involving credit card receipts has also increased use.
The cards also enable a more transparent taxation system.

Which brings us to our main point: The recent revelation that employees of public companies paid for personal entertainment expenses at drinking and massage parlors with their company credit cards.
The companies seem to forget the sarcastic asides by some foreign observers that the foreign exchange crisis in Korea was caused by such fiscally irresponsible antics.