Gaius Maecenas was a friend and political advisor to the Roman Emperor Augustus.
He also supported Horace and Virgil, the celebrated poets of the time.
He bequeathed his wealth to develop art and culture.
His philanthropy allowed Rome to become an empire with high culture and art, esteemed throughout the world.

Maecenas did this in a unique manner, different from patronage, sponsorship or the commissioning of works of art.
The name Maecenas has come to represent the support of art without seeking something in return.
Before Maecenas, artist's who obtained support from rulers and the elite, would present the work to their patron.
The legacy of the philanthropic poet, on the other hand, encouraged artists to realize their visions with greater freedom and without commercial constraints.

In 1976, the top 10 French banks formed an association in the name of Maecenas to support the arts.
A large number of Maecenas were founded in Europe and elsewhere, funded by commercial enterprises in England and Germany, as well as companies in Japan.
Under the principles of market economy, pure art and culture cannot survive without such benefactors.
At the Seoul International Forum for Literature held in September, a French socialist, Pierre Bourdieu, said that commercialism has become involved in the entire process of production and circulation of art and culture.
Therefore, he argued, the independent process of art is endangered.
In addition, Ismail Kadere, a writer from Albania, commented that an artists freedom to create what he or she believes is important is undermined by the fact that art that only sells is considered good art.
He posited that this could have far-reaching consequences on how people learn to value morality through art.
Art and culture that is mass produced in a market economy would, in his estimation, result in the dilution, commercialization and exploitation of culture and art.

At the end of 1993, former Korean President Kim Young-sam invited businessmen and artists to the Blue House.
During the casual session, Mr. Kim advised the businessmen to "invest in art and culture from now on, rather than paying into political funds."
In 1994, Korea Enterprise MESSENA Association was established to discuss proposals for companies to support the arts.
However, the companies' support of culture and art sharply declined in the wake of the economic crisis － before corporate philanthropy could fully bloom in Korea.

To rekindle interest and support in the arts, Minister of Culture and Tourism Kim Han-gil made a private donation to the Korea Translation Foundation on Wednesday.
Minister Kim said he wanted Korean literature to be read by the world so that someday a Korean writer could win a Nobel Prize in literature.
Even when times are hard, it is important to support the arts and culture in order buttress our moral and spiritual foundations.