The nation＇s political bigwigs displayed a variety of responses to gifts of rare ＂song-i＂ mushrooms from North Korean leader Kim Jong-il to leading political and media figures in the South.

The nation＇s political leaders received either one or half a box of the expensive mushrooms from Mt.
Chilbo, North Korea on Sept. 11.
The mushrooms became the focus of public interest after their escort, 67-year-old general Park Jae-kyung, said their delivery was the sole purpose of his six-hour visit to Seoul.
He brought one large box containing eight smaller boxes, each holding 10 pine mushrooms weighing eight kilograms.

Among the recipients of the mushrooms were President Suh Young-hoon of the Millennium Democratic Party (MDP), President Lee Hoi-Chang of the Grand National Party (GNP), Honorary President Kim Jong-pil of the United Liberal Democrats, Lee Man-sup, National Assembly speaker, three key figures in the political parties and former presidents.

Their responses tended to reflect each party line and each political figure＇s stance toward the government＇s North Korean policy.

The ruling MDP welcomed the gift, saying ＂(we) can really feel the reconciliation and exchange taking place between the South and North.＂President Lee of the opposition GNP remained lukewarm, saying on Sept. 13 that ＂the mushrooms were forwarded to us in the name of the Unification Ministry, so I can＇t quite see them as a present from the North Korean leader Kim Jong-il.＂ He added that his wife would take care of them.
The box sent to the opposition leader was addressed ＂to President Lee and the three key figures of the GNP.＂The response from President Kim Young-sam, who is carving out a political role as the instigator of criticism against the incumbent government＇s North Korean policy, was cold.
His spokesman Park Chong-ung said that the former president did not even take a look at the gift from the North, and that the box is now sitting in a corner unnoticed at the former president＇s Sangdo-dong home in Seoul.

Instead, the ex-president Sept. 13 was the first person to sign a petition aimed at denouncing the North Korean leader Kim Jong-il for his ＂criminal activities＂, there

Meanwhile, former President Chun Doo-hwan said that he had shared the mushrooms with three prime ministers who served in his administration, and his close aide, Chang Se-dong, former chief of the National Intelligence Service.

In contrast to the former President Kim＇s cold shoulder, Chun, however, argued for prudence toward the North.

＂The Inter-Korean summit talks and the planned visit 
＂Although obtaining a formal apology from Chairman Kim Jong-il of the North Korean National Defense Commission remains a historical necessity, it is not the right time to pursue this matter.＂