President Kim stated Monday August 14 that he will propose the formation of three joint committees to handle inter-Korean military, economic, and social-cultural matters at the upcoming ministerial-level meetings between the two Koreas.

 President Kim mentioned that this proposal will be included in his Liberation Day speach on August 15.

 In addition, he said that as a way to further ease the tension between the South and North, a military hot-line will be installed while a meeting between the defence ministers of the two Koreas is sought.
To prompt inter-Korean businesses, the two sides will work together to provide a safe and efficient business environment, including an inter-country treaty on double-taxation preventation.

 On the same day, President Kim invited the group of separated family members who are heading to Pyongyang on August 15 to Chong Wa Dae for lunch.
At lunch, President Kim revealed that the two Koreas have already agreed to have a ground-breaking ceremony at around Chusok, Korea's harvest moon festival, for the restoration of the Kyong-eui railway line which was disconected during the Korean war.
"Once Kyong-eui and Kyong-won lines are connected and ready, the two lines will provide transit linking Korea to the Asian and European continents," he added.

 He explained that the ultimate purpose of the reunion of separated families is part of a plan that would allow those family members to live anywhere on the Korean Peninsula they want.

 In his speech, he pointed out that through the cooperation by the two Koreas would transform a small country in Northeast Asia into a world center.

 When talking about current conditions in South Korea, he skeptically remarked that "Even though, we have made our best efforts, we still have unsolved issues, including incomplete reforms in the financial, business, public, and labor sectors, moral hazards, violent group action based on self interest, and political strife."
But he committed himself to complete reforms in four sectors by February, 2001, the third anniversary of his inaugration.

 He also said that, "There can be no barriers to achieving nation-wide reconciliation at a time when we have managed to overcome the long-standing hostility between the South and North."
"To achieve national harmony, I am willing to meet the leaders of political parties at any time."
Lastly, he added that he will push for legislation that will be designed to prevent corruption passed as soon as possible.
He also made it clear that he would not tolerate illegal violent action 