＂Mom, did you love me this much when I was a kid?＂＂Of course, even though I wasn't able to be near you all the time, you were loved 

 Han Yeon-hee (43) and her husband Yoo Yun-kil (44) are the proud parents of four adopted kids.
Mrs. Han doesn't attempt to hide the fact that they are adopted from her children.
She understands the problems that result from disguise and fears that the absence of honesty will form a barrier between parents and children.

 The couple has five children in total: the first was Myung-gon (19), the second Hee-gon (16), the third Chung Young-bum (8), the fourth Chung Young-hwan (7), and finally the youngest Yoo Ha-son (3).
Among them, Myung-gon is the only child Mrs. Han bore herself.

 After adopting six-year-old Hee-kun from an orphanage last 1990, they welcomed their youngest son Ha-son into their family in 1998.
Legal problems meant that they were only able to foster their third and fourth sons last year.

 Mrs. Han believes that all who wish to form a family are duty-bound by society to adopt children.
Fostering children, however, wasn＇t as easy as she at first thought.
In order protect her son from the insecurity of knowing he was adopted, she tried to give him everything, having Hee-gon take swimming lessons early in the morning and receive private tutoring lessons late into the night.
The relationship, however, fell below her expectations and became unnatural and awkward.

 ＂It was after consulting dozens of books on education and psychology that I realized that I hadn＇t loved them for the way they are and I came to reflect upon my own behavior,＂ said Mrs. Han.

 During the financial crisis which afflicted Korea over 1998, the couple heard about many abandoned children and decided to adopt Ha-son, their youngest son.
Their financial situation barely allowed enough to keep the family together.

 ＂What worried us most was not the fostering expenses but the anxiety that the children could suffer.
I think taking care of them with a sincere heart is the most important.
And the rest depends on God,＂ said Mr. Yoo.

 Mrs. Han is president of a group called Mission to Promote Adoption in Korea (MPAK).
You can reach the group at 02-503-8351.

 ＂I remember Hee-gon＇s smile when he had a new brother and I can see all their faces lighting up with happiness, which makes me even more grateful for my family,＂ said Mrs. Han.
She says she wishes more could experience the joy brought 