The nation＇s top four business groups, Hyundai, Samsung, LG and SK, are reported to have guaranteed debts worth more than 16 trillion won ($14.3 billion) for their local corporate entities in foreign nations.
It is required that a firm's overseas subsidiaries be included in the combined financial statements.

 Accountants explained that the unexposed amount of debt guarantee for local corporations in foreign nations would exceed estimates if the companies had not already included the payments allocated for guaranteed debts as part of their liabilities.

 According to the footnotes of the combined financial statements of the four major business groups, Hyundai guaranteed 4.21 trillion won ($3.76 billion) worth of loans for local corporate firms in foreign countries, while Samsung guaranteed 5.97 trillion won ($5.33 billion) worth of loans.
LG and SK guaranteed 3.5 and 2.7 trillion won ($3.15 and 2.4 billion) in debts for their corporate entities in foreign countries, respectively.

 Hyundai Electronic Industries guaranteed a total of 1.12 trillion won ($1.0 billion) in loans for its local corporate entities in foreign countries including 17.1 billion won ($15.3 million) of debts for Maxmedia California.
Hyundai Heavy Industries also guaranteed 579.1 billion won ($517 million) for local corporations in foreign countries.

 Samsung Electronics guaranteed a total of 2.4 trillion won ($2 billion) in debts for its local corporations in foreign countries including 1.1 trillion won ($1.0 billion) of loans for Samsung Electronics America.
Samsung Corporation also guaranteed 2.3 trillion won ($2.0 billion) for local corporate offices in foreign countries.

 ＂The parent company guarantees the debts for its local corporate entities in foreign counties in order to help the subsidiaries obtain loans.
It is different from cases in which the affiliates guarantee each other's loans,＂ said Korea Accounting Institute Head Kim Il-sop.

 ＂However, it is possible that problems related to excessive loans will occur.
Parent companies can guarantee loans in order to obtain capital for their personal use,＂ Kim pointed out.
＂If the payments for guaranteed loans are included in the debts of the parent company, there would not be any further problems.
However, if not included, a company's exposure to potential insolvency can be increased,＂ Kim explained.