The Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation will double deposit insurance premiums collected from financial institutions, in return for substitute payment for deposits, across the board beginning in July.

 As a result, financial institutions' deposit insurance premiums will soar to almost 1 trillion won ($900 million) annually.
It is likely that banks will transfer the burden to their customers either by raising interest rates for loans or by cutting interest rates for deposits.

 The Ministry of Finance and Economy declared on June 12 that the Depositors Protection Act would be revised in order to replenish the dwindling deposit insurance fund.

 According to the revision draft, premiums will double across the board for deposits under protection.
The rate will rise from 0.05 percent to 0.1 percent for banks, from 0.1 percent to 0.2 percent for securities companies, and from 0.15 percent to 0.3 percent for insurance companies, merchant banks, savings and finance firms, and credit unions.

 Subsequent to the rate increase, premiums paid by financial institutions (including domestic branches of foreign financial institutions) are estimated to total 956 billion won ($860 million) annually.
This figure comprises premiums of $407 million from banks, $293 million from insurance companies, $58 million from savings and finance firms, $50 million from credit unions, $31 million from merchant banks, and $22 million from securities companies.

 The government made the decision in part because public deposit insurance coffers are nearly depleted, and also because the plan to differentiate between insurance premiums, slated to be implemented next year, has been indefinitely postponed.

 Many financial experts criticized the government＇s move.
One of them explained, ＂It is natural that organizations with higher investment risks should pay higher premiums because the government has suspended the introduction of the insurance premium scale, citing the fear of inducing anxiety in the financial market, healthy financial institutions will be put at a disadvantage.＂