On June 6, in his Memorial Day speech, President Kim Dae-jung said, ＂I will be in the forefront to personally take care of the economy.＂ A Chong Wa Dae official relayed that the president added this sentence to the draft penned by his staff.
This indicates that he strongly believes in what he said.

 President Kim has begun to pay closer attention to the economy since Prime Minister Park Tae-joon resigned on May 12.
He often summoned economic ministers, including Finance and Economy Minister Lee Hun-jae, for a briefing.
Yet, the president expressed his intention to attend to the economy ＂in consideration of public opinion,＂ according to the official.

 He added, ＂The upcoming inter-Korean summit meeting is a historical event, but President Kim made the remarks to emphasize that he is paying equal attention to the economy.＂ Recently, President Kim has pushed behind other schedules in order to prepare for the inter-Korean summit.
He used to have at least four or five functions everyday, but now his agenda shows ＂no schedule＂ almost daily.

 Therefore, the president may have felt that it is not appropriate to give an impression that he is exclusively dedicating himself to the summit meeting in a situation where economic indices, including stock prices, are greatly affected by psychological factors.

 A presidential economic staff member said, ＂President Kim believes that the stable trend should be firmed up at this opportunity, because the rumor of an economic crisis, which began to spread with Hyundai＇s worsening liquidity, has somewhat passed.＂ In addition, the president is said to believe that the latter half of this year is a very important period for four major economic reforms in the areas of finance, corporate reform, the public sector, and labor.
Chong Wa Dae explains that the president once again will use the bully pulpit of his office to push for reform.

 However, the above official went on to say, ＂It is true that the current economic team＇s teamwork gives an unstable impression as it pushes reform.＂ According to this official, the team is not skillful at promoting a consistent reform drive, and sometimes it even fails to grasp the president＇s intentions.

 He pointed out that such an example occurred last weekend when President Kim scolded Lee Yong-keun, chairman of the Financial Supervisory Commission, in connection with the remarks he had made about Hyundai Honorary Chairman Chung Ju-yong＇s retirement.

DJ ""