The ailing Hyundai Group announced a package of debt reduction measures on Wednesday.
Following is a summary of the self-rescue package.

(1) Establish a management system focused on a professional team of manager and board of directors.
The largest shareholder will no longer be involved in the group's management.
The board of directors will appoint the management of each Hyundai affiliate and also employ talented professional managers capable of winning market confidence.

(2) Improve Hyundai＇s financial structure by additionally raising 3.7 trillion won.
The group will also sell 3.71 trillion won worth of assets within the year.
They will include 2.77 trillion won in securities and bonds, 698.8 billion won in real estate holdings, and 307.9 billion won in other business divisions.
To that end, the group will sell its equity shares in Hyundai Information Technology, Hyundai Logistics, and Hyundai Autonet, which are currently pursuing registration on the over-the-counter KOSDAQ market.
The group will also sell part of its equity holdings in Hyundai Oilbank.
Hyundai Engineering &amp; Construction will sell a total of 545.4 billion won in assets, including securities and bonds (341.3 billion won) and real estate (204.1 billion won).
Hyundai will review ways to utilize its Sosan Farm estimated at about 640 billion won in order to raise cash (liquidation through asset-backed securities).
Among the real estate to be sold include the Inchon factory site owned 
Eight ships owned by Hyundai Merchant Marine will be sold.

(3) Incremental reduction of new investment plans.
Hyundai will reduce its investment plans for this year, from 6.5 trillion won to 4.3 trillion won.
The reductions will be focused on facility investments for Hyundai Merchant Marine and Hyundai Heavy Industries rather than on technology and R&amp;D; investments.
Hyundai will also attract foreign tourists for ongoing Mt.
Kumgang tours and begin an early operation of a casino business to generate operational profits by the end of next year.
Hyundai will also reduce its cash burden by attracting foreign capital investments for the development project in the west coast factory complex.
Hyundai Asan Corporation will pursue business projects in North Korea independent of the group.

(4) The group will push to forge strategic alliances with advanced foreign companies for each of its subsidiaries.
It will pursue joint ventures with foreign companies for each Hyundai affiliate, including core companies such as Hyundai Motors, Hyundai Engineering &amp; Construction, Hyundai Heavy Industries, Hyundai Electronics and Hyundai Merchant Marine.
Aside from introducing advanced technologies and management practices, the plans are also based on the goal of improving the overall financial structure and establishing an advanced management structure.

(5) Additional sales of blue chip companies to attract foreign capital.
Hyundai will sell Hyundai Elevator in order to concentrate capabilities in its core businesses.
It will join hands with specialized foreign companies to foster Hyundai affiliates into global corporations.
It will sell 16 affiliates within the year to reduce the total number of affiliates down to 21.
In particular, 6 companies in its auto division, 3 companies affiliated with Inchon Iron &amp; Steel, and 14 companies, including Hyundai Pipe, T-Zone Korea, Daehan Aluminum, Hyundai Energy, and Hyundai Aerospace will be sold within the first half of the year.
Hyundai Petrochemical and Hyundai Elevator will be sold by September.
Hyundai Petrochemical, Hyundai Information Technology, Hyundai Investment Trust &amp; Securities, and Hyundai Investment Trust Management are also currently negotiating with American and Japanese financial institutions to attract foreign capital investments.

(6) Reinforce Investor Relations (IR) to recover market confidence.
Beginning in June, the chief executive officer of each Hyundai subsidiary will personally implement IR activities in Korea.
Overseas IR activities will be carried out on a large scale at least more than once each year starting in the second half of this year.
Hyundai will submit a combined financial statement certified by an external accounting corporation by July.
Its creditor banks will inspect the group＇s restructuring plans per each quarter.
The group will also devise and announce a long-term vision for core businesses in the near future.