＂It is important not to expect too much from the upcoming inter-Korean summit.
It is a preparatory meeting designed to open windows for the future,＂ said Yasuhiro Nakasone, 81, the former Japanese prime minister, during an interview with the 
Mr. Nakasone was prime minister for five years.
A 19-term legislator for over 50 years, he has been a giant in Japanese politics since the war.
Even now, he plays the role of a compass in Japanese political circles.
A 

[Correspondent] What is the significance of the inter-Korean summit talks?
[Nakasone] The meeting itself is significant.
Of course, if regular meetings are agreed upon, it will be a great success.

[Correspondent] I think it is more important than any other time that Japan play a constructive role in the peace process for the Korean Peninsula.

[Nakasone] Japan＇s role is to support South Korea＇s efforts.
Japan is cooperating with the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO).
According to the progress of the inter-Korean summit, Japan may consider food and other aid to North Korea.

[Correspondent] The normalization negotiation between North Korea and Japan, originally scheduled at the end of May, has been delayed.
What are the prospects?
[Nakasone] Tangled emotions of the two sides have not been sorted out yet.
North Korea seems to be considering the Japanese-NK relationship in conjunction with the inter-Korean summit talks.

[Correspondent] What are your views of the swiftly changing Northeast Asian situation, such as the inter-Korean summit talks, the resumption of normalization talks between North Korea and Japan, and the inauguration of the new president in Taiwan?
[Nakasone] I hope that North Korea shows enthusiasm for inter-Korean talks and the normalization of ties with Japan, and ultimately participates in the Asian-Pacific community as a member.
Recently, North Korea has formed ties with European and Asian nations.
I hope the trend continues.

[Correspondent] In Japan, there is a belief that Japan should contribute to the international community more actively.
What is the desirable direction for such a contribution?
[Nakasone] We need to promote multilateral cooperative relationships in East Asia, centered on the alliance between Japan and South Korea.
For example, it includes the further development of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF), into which North Korea has been recently allowed to join.
Trust must be built between the different nations in Asia in the fields of security, transparency of arms expenditures and the prevention of disputes.
There is also a need to create a multilateral organization for economic and financial cooperation.
I think that mny of the East Asian nations that were dealt a heavy blow by hedge funds feel very strongly about the problem.

[Correspondent] There are many opinions about the role of Japan in the 21st century.

[Nakasone] The blueprint for the 21st century revolves around the Japanese Constitution and the Basic Education Law.
These issues will be discussed during the June general elections.
After the elections, a large-scale cooperative relationship should be established among the political parties.

[Correspondent] What are the issues and prospects for the general elections to be held in late June?
[Nakasone] The upcoming election will play the role of laying out a foundation upon which a blueprint for the 21st century will be drawn.
The current coalition government will not break down.