On May 26, Hyundai Group Chairman Chong Mong-hon said, ＂Hyundai Construction and Hyundai Merchant Marine are in a financial crunch because Hyundai＇s credit ratings have fallen due to the recent dispute over management rights within Hyundai and the Hyundai Investment Trust case, not because their performances are bad.＂ A high-ranking Hyundai official said, ＂We are now in a difficult situation because banks are fastidious about extending maturities for corporate bonds and commercial papers (CPs) issued 

 Hyundai Construction issued large-scale corporate bonds in 1997 and 1998 right after the foreign exchange crisis.
The total of the principals maturing this year stands at $538 million, of which $48 million is due in May and $6.2 million in June.
Furthermore, the bonds are set at an interest rate of 11-13 percent, so the burden of interest payments is tremendous as well.

 In addition, corporate bonds totaling $1.3 billion, issued in early 1998, mature early next year.
Furthermore, Hyundai Construction＇s credit ratings have fallen, so now the company must pay annual interest rates of 17-22 percent.
Hyundai Construction faces the difficult task of either paying back all its maturing bonds by dramatically improving profitability or it needs help from banks to refinancethe bonds.

 However, Hyundai Construction recorded a net loss of $11.3 million last year due to depressed construction businesses at home and abroad.
To make matters worse, it failed to receive $900 million from Iraq after completion of construction work.
A Hyundai Construction official said, ＂Our goal for this year is $7 billion in sales and $181 million in net profit.
We secured the $44 million necessary to repay the corporate bonds maturing at the end of May from Korea Exchange Bank.
Therefore, we expect no problem.＂ On the other hand, a Hyundai Merchant Marine official said, ＂Our corporate bonds maturing this year amount to only $13 million, so we have no problem with them.
Our problem is short-term CPs, those maturing every two or three months."
Hyundai Merchant Marine issued a total of $265 million in CPs.
When banks tightened the money supply to Hyundai last week, Hyundai Merchant Marine was immediately affected.
Hyundai people emphasize that Hyundai Merchant Marine is financially sound, as of the end of 1999, its debt ratio stood at 181 percent, with $4.2 billion in sales and $127 million in net profit.
Officials say that there is no liquidity problem because the company rakes in an average of $35 million in cash every month.

 However, a source said, ＂The problem is Hyundai Merchant Marine holds 40 percent of Hyundai Asan shares, and Asan is in charge of projects in North Korea.
In connection with projects in North Korea, Hyundai Asan saw a loss of $26 million last year.
Hyundai Merchant Marine is in the grip of a money crunch because it must come up with most of the $900 million to be paid to North Korea over the next six years.＂ In response, Hyundai Marine Merchant explained as follows.
＂Out of total sales, Hyundai Merchant Marine spends only around 5 percent for North Korean projects, so they have little impact on the overall financial well-being of the company.＂ 