The world-class Pyongyang Circus Troupe＇s performance schedule in Seoul was finalized today.
The committee established to arrange the North Korean acrobats＇ performances in Seoul held a press conference at Hotel Lotte and announced that the elite members of the troupe will give a total of 13 performances at the Chamshil Student＇s Gymnasium (12,000 seats) in Seoul from June 3 to 10.
A 120-member entourage, including acrobats, band members, and officials, will arrive at Kimpo Airport at 3 p.m. on May 29.
After unpacking at Sheraton Walker Hill Hotel, the North Korean acrobats will begin their official schedule by attending a banquet hosted by the Unification Minister.

 Shin Dong-ho, the general producer of the acrobatic shows who returned to Seoul after consulting on technical issues with the North at Hyundai Asan＇s conference room on Mt.
Kumgang from May 19 to 21, said, ＂We agreed that the troupe members will not participate in any program or event, aside from rehearsals and actual performances as the purpose of their visit lies in giving acrobatic shows.＂ He added that MBC would record the shows to be aired on TV.
He also stated that the Pyongyang Circus Troupe is a world-class acrobatic team of even greater skills than the Moranbong Circus Troupe, which performs for South Korean tourists visiting Mt.
Kumgang.
He explained that the acrobats place the main emphasis on physical acrobatics that make full use of the body, rather than miscellaneous props.

 The committee chairman Kim Bo-ae has been trying to arrange for the troupe to perform in Seoul since 1994 in collaboration with event promoter NS21.
He said, ＂We initially reached an agreement with North Korea in April to hold the Seoul performances in September, but decided to advance the timetable to mark the historical inter-Korean summit talks.＂ He revealed that although they had originally agreed upon a $3 million fee for month-long performances along with 20,000 color TVs worth $2.5 million the troupe would receive the same fee for much fewer performances than planned.

 The North Korean acrobats will give 90-minute performances comprising of 14 events ranging from rope skipping, double swinging, seesawing, bar aerials, to cylinder rolling.
The organizers have already installed a 14m-high trust beam in the center of the stage at the Chamshil Student＇s Gymnasium and three large screens so that the audience can vividly appreciate the acrobats＇ skills from anywhere in the gymnasium.

 The Pyongyang Circus Troupe, which was established in 1952 as the National Circus Troupe, is a globally renowned performing team that has won several top prizes in international circus competitions, including the Monte Carlo International Circus Contest held in last January.
The ticket price will be from 30,000 Won to 150,000 Won (about $33-$168).
The tickets are available at H&amp;CB; (Housing &amp; Commercial Bank) branches and Kyobo Bookstore.
For online ticket reservations, access www.WanaWana.com, and www.hani.co.kr.
The shows will begin at 7 p.m. each day, and an additional show will be held at 3 p.m. on the 4th, 6th, 7th, 9th and 10th of June.