Starting in June, companies will be compleating their combined financial statements, and it is expected that the debt ratio of certain chaebol groups, which are very large scale businesses, will exceed more than 300 percent.
Therefore, the credit rating of these chaebol groups as well as their creditor financial institutions will worsen based on the high debt ratio.

 The combined financial statement is a single financial statement for all affiliates belonging to the top 30 business groups or are under the managerial influence of a group due to a majority shareholder status.
The top 30 business groups are designated by the Fair Trade Commission.
In the combined financial statement the total sales, net profits, and assets of separately run affiliates would be calculated as one integrated business company.

 Therefore, it was pointed out that to reduce the combined debt ratio of the parent company and to avoid negative side effects, including insufficient cash supply, insolvent affiliates should be spun off before June.

 Moreover, there have been increasing arguments for the approval of the establishment of Internet banks by only those banks with a solid financial status in order to accelerate financial restructuring.
In addition, it was suggested that there should be a remodeling of the existing insolvent banks into Internet banks to lead the voluntary restructuring of the market.

 On May 14, the Korea Institute of Finance (KIF) made its suggestion for governmental resolution and the direction for policy in the internal report, ＂Reform driven by the market in order to develop a new system of national economy.＂ The report predicted that the combined financial statements of the chaebol groups, which are to be completed and turned in by the end of June, will have a negative impact on current credit ratings which have only recently recovered to a level considered adequate for investment.
Therefore, the report recommended a reduction in the amount of affiliates’ shares belonging to each business group by selling off the shares or spinning off affiliates from the group in order to lower the debt ratio of the entire group.

 Moreover, the companies were warned about insolvency as internal loans and borrowing between the affiliates of the same business group have rapidly increased.
Therefore, the report advised the withdrawal of investment in affiliates in order to pay off external debts to improve the groups financial status.

 The financial restructuring plan emphasized the proposal to utilize Internet banking as the leading method for reform, with restructuring of the banking industry to be led through the regulations on the establishment of Internet banks.
The regulations will only allow Internet Banks to be extablished by domestic banks with an extremely sound financial status, foreign financial institution meeting certain criteria, or through the restructuring of exisiting insolvent financial institutions.
In this restructuring plan, a large bank can take over smaller local banks and use them to establish Internet banks after the merger.

 There is also a plan to integrate all of Korea‘s stock exchanges into one large stock company which will handle and regulate all trading.
The integrated exchange company would be founded through joint investment by banks and insurance companies.
It was recommended that the Korea Stock Exchange, Futures Exchange, KOSDAQ, the Korea Securities Depository, and the Korea Securities Computer Corporation all become subsidiaries of the newly established integrated stock exchange company.

 The report also suggested the development of private institutions specialized in evaluating market prices of bonds, and that this should be done prior to the enactment of the regulations on the evaluation of market prices of bonds in July.

 It was also recommended that the time between credit evaluations should be shortened to allow frequent accurate evaluations of market prices.