An audit has revealed that investigation agencies, including police, either exceeded the permitted period of monitoring or engaged in unauthorized monitoring.
Monitoring includes wiretapping and accessing voice mail and is permited for three month for general monitoring and 48 hours for urgent monitoring, This shows that countermeasures against the abuse of monitoring are in urgent need.

 The Board of Audit and Inspection (BAI) disclosed on May 12 that it conducted special audits on the prosecution, police, the Korea Customs Service, the Ministry of Information and Communication (MOIC), and the Office of Supply for a period of 39 days starting November 22, 1999.
In this time, the BAI said it discovered 33 illegal and unfair actions.

 It is the first time that the BAI conducted an audit into investigation agencies＇ monitoring and wiretapping practices.

 According to the BAI, policemen in four police stations, including Seoul Songbuk Police, conducted illegal monitoring by exceeding by 1 to 6 days the permitted periods by asking favors from telephone companies＇ test department heads in their districts.

 Policemen in two police stations, including Nowon Police Station, secretly put their superiors＇ official seals on formal letters, which are necessary for executing monitoring, to learn about telephone conversations and personal information of three private citizens.

 In particular, the Communication Privacy Protection Law stipulates that when it is necessary, a service provider is required to submit a record of a voice mail of the cellular phone to investigators.
However, the MOIC instructed companies to provide the secret codes for these services to the investigating organizations.
The MOIC turned a blind eye so that investigators could continue the monitoring after the end of the legal period.

 The BAI revealed that telecommunication businesses provided 3,500 secret codes for the voice mail of cellular phones and beepers to investigators between January 1997 and June 1999.

 The BAI said, ＂The problem is that the Communication Privacy Protection Law (article 10) states that monitoring devices imported or manufactured by state organizations are not required to be approved by the MOIC.
The relevant law must be revised so that monitoring devices imported by state organizations need to receive approval.＂ The audit results show that the number of cases of monitoring increased to 4,675 in 1998 from 4,134 in 1997, but decreased to 2,154 in 1999 due to the controversy created during a National Assembly administrative inspection in the autumn of 1998.

 By contrast, in the case of the National Intelligence Service (NIS), the number of instances of monitoring grew from 773 in 1997, to 795 in 1998, and to 828 in 1999.
However, the NIS refused to be audited citing the regulation that the NIS may reject a submission of audit materials for key national secrets.

 Also the BAI did not audit military investigation agencies, such as the Defense Security Command, because their monitoring targets military personnel.