The status of the National Assembly speaker is likely to undergo significant changes.
The 16th National Assembly, which will begin its first session on May 30, heralds an era of a ＂powerful parliamentary speaker＂ as the product of the two-party system with the opposition holding more parliamentary seats for the first time in the history of Korea.

 Chong Wa Dae believes it has to help with expanding the role of the National Assembly speaker so that he can properly manage the parliament where the opposition is the largest party.
This means that the speaker can no longer be elected based on political considerations only as in the past.

 Accordingly, the existing practice of the President, also leader of the ruling party, nominating the speaker will also have to change.
In the transformed political landscape, the ruling party does not have enough power to hold the National Assembly speakership under its sway.
There is even the possibility of the speaker being elected from the opposition for the first time since Shin Ik-hui assumed the position in 1954.
Park Kwan-yong, vice president of the main opposition Grand National Party (GNP), claims that, ＂The National Assembly speaker will enjoy great power and he will longer be under the command of the President as in the past.＂ Some observers foresee the role of National Assembly speaker changing due to the firm intention of first-term and second-term representatives to distance themselves from the notoriety of being at the beck-and-call of the government, and also due to the public＇s ardent wish for a new political climate.
The Korean people are also hoping that the past practices of the ruling party railroading legislative bills through the parliament and the opposition trying to block them in physical skirmishes will pass into the annals of history forever.

 Lee Man-sop, advisor for the Millenium Democratic Party (MDP) who had served as the National Assembly speaker during the Kim Young-sam administration, said that, ＂Railroading of bills will become an historical relic as it is possible only when the ruling party holds an outright majority in the National Assembly.＂ Professor Ham Song-deuk of Korea University analyzed, ＂The 16th General Assembly will remain in session until 2004 after the next president is elected in December 2002.＂ He added that this gives the National Assembly and the speaker the opportunity to enjoy unprecedented freedom.

 The problem is whether the lawmakers will devote themselves to further maturing the nation＇s legislative culture and engage in new experiments based on the platform of changed political environment.

 Professor Ham proposed learning from the example of Newt Gingrich (GOP), who served as the speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives for four years from 1994.
Although the ruling party was a minority in the Congress, Gingrich passed a number of Congress reform bills on the first day its session began.
He also made strategic alliances with first-term representatives from both the Republican and Democratic parties and succeeded in replacing the chairmen of key standing committees from the old political era.

 Gingrich＇s experiments in reforming the Congress enjoyed supra-partisan support and he saw his authority as the House speaker rise considerably.
Later, however, he was accused of obstructing the key polices pursued by the Clinton administration and resigned as the House speaker for creating difficulties in state administration.

 It is true that his example cannot be applied wholly to Korea＇s unique political situation.
Still, the nation＇s political community is demanding that the speaker of the 16th National Assembly should take the lead in creating a new role as speaker and in firmly establishing his status.