The Korea Institute for International Economic Policy (KIEP) announced a report Monday in which it proposed that Korea, China and Japan create a ＂Northeast Asia Economic Council＂, an inter-governmental consultative body similar to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).
The proposal is worthy of note in that it comes on the heels of an agreement reached among leaders of the three countries in November last year to jointly study the ways to promote three-way economic cooperation.

In the report titled ＂Strategic Research on Economic Cooperation in Northeast Asia＂, KIEP suggested the three key Northeast Asian countries create an economic cooperation system to respond more actively to spreading regionalism.

Commenting on the proposed creation of the three-way economic cooperation system, Bae Young-shik, director of economic cooperation at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, said that ＂KIEP will represent Korea in the joint research project, and the Development Research Center of the State Council (DRP) will represent China.
Japan has not yet decided on its representative research body.＂ He added that the designated think tanks will meet sometime this year to discuss specific measures on economic cooperation.

For this year, the report proposed the creation of ＂Northeast Asia Research Council＂ to pursue joint research, and also the launch of a consultative body sometime during the 2001-2005 period to establish a systematic foundation for tripartite economic cooperation.
It also called for the creation of Northeast Asia Development Bank during 2006-2010 to further strengthen the cooperation system.
Furthermore, it predicted the three countries could even expect to integrate their economies after the year 2010 based on the new three-way economic cooperation system.

KIEP also pointed out that the three countries should unify their trade norms currently acting as non-tariff barriers, such as customs procedures and regulations on anti-dumping and country of origin, in order to integrate the economies of the three countries.
In addition, the three countries should activate trade within the bloc by lowering trade tariffs, the government think tank said.

In the report, KIEP claimed the three countries should jointly attract foreign investments to reinforce investment cooperation within Northeast Asia, and that businesses within the bloc should be allowed to establish a system for sharing resources.

Korea should initiate the proposal for the creation of a three-way economic consultative body, KIEP also maintained, as it is geographically and economically between the three countries.
Korea is also unlikely to be accused of trying to dominate the bloc, it claimed.

The report stated the combined economies of the three countries currently account for 20 percent of the entire world economy, and the highly complementary nature of their natural resources could lead to great benefits through economic cooperation.

The report was compiled jointly by ten government think tanks, including KIEP.
Nine government ministries including the finance and economy ministry also participated in the drawing up of the report.