Efforts are currently under way by the Korean government to help North Korea join the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
If North Korea decides to join the ADB, the capital-starved country might be accepted by the bank as early as next year.

 Minister of Finance and Economy Lee Hun-jai formally asked the members of the ADB to support North Korea’s efforts to join the ADB at the bank’s meeting held in Chiang Mai, Thailand.
Lee made the request in his keynote address on May 7 at the ADB‘s 33rd Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors.

 Minister Lee remarked that in order to improve the overall situation on the Korean peninsula, a more active economic aid policy from the international community would be essential.
Minister Lee said that he looked forward to international economic organizations, such as the ADB, to help North Korea rebuild its economy.

 He said that South Korea will help the ADB in its efforts to increase the Asian Development Fund’s (ADF) financial resources.
The ADF is a low-interest loan fund set up to help impoverished Asian countries, and North Korea will be first in line to receive monies from the fund should they decide to join the ADB.

 In regards to the timing of North Korea‘s entrance into the bank, ADB Vice-president Shin Myung-ho said that the time is right for North Korea to join the multilateral institution.
He said that he had been informed that the U.S. and North Korea were holding talks on the matter.

 An official at the Ministry of Finance and Economy said that North Korea would be guaranteed long term, low-interest loans if they joined the ADB, but would have to follow the ADB‘s rules regarding such things as transparent economic policies and monitoring of how the funds are spent.
The official added that to join the ADB, an average of three years are needed to make the final decision, but the government is working to pave the way for North Korea, so that the period can be shortened to as little as a year.

 So if North Korea is successful in their talks with countries like the U.S. and Japan and apply to enter the ADB this year, North Korea should be able to enter as early as next year.

 North Korea unofficially tried to enter the ADB in 1996, but their efforts proved fruitless due to the currency crisis that hit Asia in 1997.