On April 27, the Financial Supervisory Commission (FSC) unveiled its list of 60 business groups with the highest amount of loans from financial institutions.
Nine groups, including Daewoo, that had been on the 1999 list were excluded this year, while 12 groups,such as Hyundai Oil Refinery, made the list for the first time.

 The FSC drew up the list based on the amount of loans the business groups received from banks, merchant banks, and insurance companies as of the end of 1999.
The financial watchdog also demanded that the business groups on the list sign an agreement with their main creditor banks promising to improve their financial status, including plans on debt repayment and business restructuring.

 In previous years, the FSC only took into account loans from banks to compile the list, but changed this year＇s criteria to include loans from secondary financial institutions as well.
The change in criteria led to the inclusion of twelve business groups on the list for the first time.
They include Daewoo Corporation, Hyundai Oil Refinery Co., Daewoo Electronics, Daewoo Motor Sale, S Oil (formerly Ssangyong Oil), Ildong Pharmaceutical Co., Isu Chemical, Korea Data Systems, Nongshim, Seah Steel, Daehan Pulp, and Dongbang.

 Among the top five conglomerates in Korea, Hyundai ranked at the top with the heaviest amount of debts, reaching 21.74 trillion won.
It also ranked first last year.
With the Daewoo Group out of the picture, Samsung rose to the second place from last year＇s third place with 12.73 trillion won in debts, followed by Daewoo Corporation, LG, and SK.

 SK rose to fifth place from sixth in 1998, but Hanjin dropped to the sixth with 5.63 trillion won in debts.

 Due to the disintegration of the Daewoo Group, Daewoo Corporation (with 2 affiliated companies), Daewoo Electronics (3 companies), Daewoo Motor Sale (3 companies) were classified as separate business groups and designated as the main debtor company for their affiliates.

 Although Hyundai Development Company, Shinsegae and Jinro were included in the list of top 30 business groups in Korea according to the Fair Trade Commission, which based its evaluation on the total asset size, they were excluded from the FSC＇s list, thanks to relatively fewer loans.

 For the next year, main creditor banks will be privy to the corporate information of the affiliates of the 60 business groups, including the status of their loans.
The banks will also be prohibited from extending loans to other companies belonging to the same business group based on new loan guarantees by affiliates of the main debtor company.