The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) is under fire for possible violation of human rights, after it became known Wednesday that it is in the process of collecting detailed information on the approximately 500,000 foreign students studying in the United States.
Furthermore, the INS plans to share the information with the U.S. Department of Justice and the State Department.

 Foreign students objected strongly to the plan, particularly since the stated purpose of the information collection is the ＂prevention of terrorism.＂ The students complain that the INS is treating all students as ＂potential criminals.＂ According to knowledgeable sources, the INS began to compile personal data on the approximately 500,000 foreign students in the United States after the passage of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996.
The INS also decided to finance the costs of collecting the information by levying a $95 fee from each student.

 According to the current plan, the INS will receive all academic information on foreign students from their respective university, which will be entered into the INS’s database.
The information will not only include their current address in the United States and other personal data but also their current academic status, such as any termination of academic programs, probation, suspension or improper transfer.
The U.S. Department of Justice, Department of Education and State Department will share the information.
The plan was introduced after the World Trade Center bombing in 1993.
A foreign student, who had joined an Islamic terrorist group after completing three semesters at Kansas State University in Wichita, Kansas was responsible for the bombing.
The INS plans to collect all the necessary information by 2003.

 The U.S. federal government believes the plan will help to prevent acts of terrorism by foreigners, in addition to contributing greatly towards tracking violations of visa regulations.

 Foreign students and university officials, however, oppose the plan, calling it a violation of human rights and individual privacy.
They also claim the information collection and tracking plan reduces universities to an information collection agency acting on behalf of the government.

 A Korean student studying in New York denounced the plan saying, ＂It is absurd that students have to submit personal information so that they can be kept under watch, and also pay the fee.＂Based on the 1998-1999 academic year, the number of Korean students studying in the United States was 39,199.
Koreans make up the third largest group of foreign students, trailing only Chinese (51,001) and Japanese (46,406) students.