Creditors of Samsung Motors agreed Tuesday to sell the ailing automaker to French auto giant Renault.
A new joint venture company between Samsung and Renault will be set up in July, following which Samsung＇s passenger-car plant in Pusan will operate at full capacity.

 The 16 creditor institutions of Samsung Motors held a plenary session at the headquarters of the main creditor Hanvit Bank Tuesday, and agreed to accept Renault＇s proposal to buy Samsung Motors for 620 billion won ($565 million).

 Samsung＇s creditors, however, will hold additional negotiations with Renault this week to discuss further details, including collateral security for payment guarantee.
Both parties also plan to sign a letter of intent (LOI) at Samsung＇s Pusan plant Thursday this week.

 According to the agreement, Renault will pay 110 billion won in cash, and 233 billion won over a 10-year period beginning 2004.
However, Renault will defer payment of 116.5 billion won - about half of the 233 billion won - for a year if the new company generates no operating profits.
It will also pay 10 percent of an additional 233 billion won every year, beginning from the year the company yields profits.
Samsung Motors＇ creditors will invest the remaining 44 billion won in the new company in a debt-equity swap.

 The new joint venture will officially launch on July 1, with Renault holding a 70.1 percent stake, Samsung 19.9 percent and creditors the remaining 10 percent.

 An official at Samsung Motors said, ＂When we sign the letter of intent with Renault on Thursday, we will immediately place orders for raw materials with auto parts producers, which will increase the number of production units.＂ He added that Renault would conduct additional inspections for about a month, which means the plant will operate at full capacity after July when the new joint venture is established.

 Samsung Motors has been partially operating its Pusan plant since December last year to produce 100-150 units of its SM5 model a day.
The number of Samsung Motors’ employees, which reached 6,100 in its heyday, is now down to about 2,100, including 1, 500 production personnel.
Samsung Motors plans to hire about 1,000 sales personnel 

 Meanwhile, Renault plans to introduce partially remodeled SM5 units early next year, and the SM3 model, a compact passenger car, in 2003.