This year, during the ＂yellow dust＂ period, the strong wind carrying dust and heavy metal particles from China dumped dust equivalent to the amount carried 

 On April 17, Lee Seung-mook, professor of environment at Ewha Womans University, disclosed the results of measuring ＂dry deposits＂ in the Seoul area during ＂yellow dust＂ days in March and April.
He revealed that the deposited dust amounted to 2.86 times that of the normal levels.

 This is the first time in Korea that the amount of ＂yellow dust＂ that has accumulated on the ground had been measured.

 During the measurement period, the average daily amount of dust per square meter stood at 7.29 grams, a 4.74-gram increase from that of normal levels, which shows 2.55 grams of dust.

 When the average is multiplied by the entire area of Seoul (605.52 square kilometers), the total amount of dust during the six days of the measurement period amounted to 26,490 tons, about 4,415 tons per day.

 The daily average of dust during the ＂yellow dust＂ days is enough to cover one soccer ground (about 6,000 square meters) to a height of 70 centimeters.

 In addition, pollutants along with the ＂yellow dust＂ increased greatly during the dust period.

 During the measurement period, every kilogram of ＂yellow dust＂ contained 2.75 grams of manganese, 1.27 grams of lead, 0.8 grams of zinc, and 0.45 grams of nickel.
This is equivalent to pouring 5.6 tons of lead and 2 tons of nickel per day over the entire Seoul area.

 The amount of heavy metal particles increase because a moving ＂yellow dust＂ mass absorbs polluted particles from China.
During the ＂yellow dust＂ period, the density of heavy metal particles in the dust soared: lead showed a 5.85-fold increase, and nickel a 2.75-fold increase.

 Professor Lee said, ＂A large amount of pollutants, such as lead and nickel, discharged from China comes with dust.
If the ＇yellow dust＇ enters the water supply, it may bring about serious damage to agricultural products and consequently humans through the food chain.＂