From July, those who have had sexual intercourse with teenagers or those who introduce teenagers to older men for sexual purposes will have their name, age, and work address posted on the Internet and in governmental newspapers.
However, their photos will be kept undisclosed.

 On March 31, the Commission on Youth Protection, an organization under the prime minister, published its initial measures for the ‘Posting of Private Information of Sex Offender to Teenager’.
The Commission on Youth Protection has been working out the details since the ‘law on protection of teenagers from sexual offense’ was passed by the National Assembly in January.

 According to the measure, job address as well as name, occupation, and offense details of sexual offenders will be made public as a social warnings.

 The offender‘s name will be posted with Chinese charaters and date of birth.
If the sexual offender is a foreigner, the English name will be posted in Korean newspapers and the offender’s country will also be notified.
However, the offender‘s personal address will not be posted to protect the offender’s family.
Also, id number and phone number would not be posted, since they could be abused if revealed.

 The posting of photos, which has been controversial, will not be made, since it might bring some problems such as a violation of the constitution and infringements on private life.
The offender’s private information will be posted in governmental newspapers, on the Internet homepage of the Commission for Youth Protection, on K-TV, and on the bulletin boards of governmenral service‘s provincial branches.

 The ‘law on protection of teenagers from sexual offenders’ certifies that those who had sexual intercourse with teenagers, arrange sexual meeting with teenagers, offer a place for sexual intercourse with teenagers, or employ teenagers in prostitution districts will have their private information posted.
In addition, producers and traders of obscene video tapes as well as sexual abusers can not avoid the posting of their private information.

 The Commission on Youth Protection will implement these measure on July 1, after hearing various opinions, and then making a final decision on the details by June.
Kang Ji-won, the director of the Commission on Youth Protection stated that the commission will decide on the final measures so that they are forceful and have less side-effects, and which considers all the public benefits as well as human rights.