Manufacturing companies, listed on the local Korean stock exchange markets and whose fiscal year ends in December, recorded all-time high net profits (14.4 trillion Won) last year.
The figure signifies that they reaped in a profit of 35 Won for every 1,000 Won worth of goods sold.
The combined net profits of Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics were disproportionately high, however, which reached 5 trillion Won or one third of the entire amount.
The debts carried by listed companies also dropped 18.8 trillion Won, based on the strength of improved performance and massive capital increases.
It marked the first time in history that the debts of listed companies have shrunk.

 The Korea Stock Exchange announced Tuesday the results of an analysis of the management data of 484 companies out of 578 listed companies which have submitted details of their last year＇s management performance.
According to the analysis, listed manufacturers recorded 415.81 trillion Won in revenues last year, up 9.8 percent from the previous year, thanks to economic recovery both in Korea and overseas.
Their net profits also soared to attain a surplus of 14.46 trillion Won, marking a rapid recovery from the previous year＇s deficits of 9.66 trillion Won.

Thanks to the record-breaking net profits and last year＇s capital increase, amounting to 47 trillion Won, the debts of listed companies dropped 18.83 trillion Won, but their capital rose 84.73 trillion Won, which brought down their debt-to-equity ratio to 137.6 percent.
This is a drop of 108.9 percentage point in the period of a mere year.

By industry, the information and communication sector recorded net profits of 6.89 trillion Won, up 621.7 percent from the previous year, thanks to a worldwide boom.
Although nine banks, including the Housing and Commercial Bank, produced a surplus, the entire banking sector suffered 4.96 trillion Won in deficits due to losses incurred through the Daewoo Group＇s non-performing bonds.
When the deficits incurred by the banking sector are taken into account, the net profits of listed companies whose fiscal year ends in December were tallied at 9.49 trillion Won.