The upcoming April 13 general elections are being marred by escalating partisan bickering and smear tactics.
The main opposition, the Grand National Party (GNP) and the ruling Millennium Democratic Party (MDP) continued to harshly denounce each other throughout Tuesday, accusing each other of using corrupt campaign tactics and mudslinging.

  The GNP claimed that the MDP is encouraging illegal election practices, and disclosed a report it compiled on the examples of corrupt campaign practices employed by the ruling party, including suspicions of bribery of candidates of other parties.
The 60 examples cited include 48 cases of alleged illegal campaign practices by government ministers and MDP＇s party candidates running in the upcoming parliamentary elections.
Suh Chung-won, a key GNP campaign strategist, convened a press conference and announced his party＇s plan to bring charges against the Government Administration and Home Affairs minister Choi In-kee, and Government Information Agency (GIA) chief Oh Hong-keun, claiming that the GNP had evidence of their meddling in the present election campaigns.

  The second opposition party and the MDP＇s former coalition partner, the United Liberal Democrats (ULD), concurred that the GIA has been distributing information flyers touting Kim Dae-jung government＇s achievements, whose cover carries a picture of a marathon runner wearing a No.
2 badge (the number to choose on election balllots for the MDP).
The MDP was quick to strike back by asking, ＂The ministers are just doing their job.
Should they give up their duties and go on vacation instead?＂ The MDP also charged that the head of the Kangnam Ward Office had arranged for Choi Byong-ryol and Oh Hong-keun (both running in Kangnam districts) to meet with prominent district residents.
The ruling party also delivered emergency orders to each of its district chapters to keep strict vigilance against propaganda and smear tactics.

  The controversy over inter-Korean collusion is equally bitter.
Chong Wa Dae, the MDP, and the Unification Ministry all denounced GNP president Lee Hoi-chang for saying that North Korean officials had asked the Unification Minister whether the Berlin Declaration by President Kim was a campaign tactic.
The Unification Minister had met with North Koreans to deliver a copy of President Kim＇s speech prior to his Berlin Declaration.
The MDP stated that Lee is not qualified to charge the government for any suspected collusion with North Korea.
The Unification Ministry also officially demanded Lee Hoi-chang to stop spreading distorted facts.

  Member of congress, Paek Nam-chi, who joined the ULD upon failing to make the list of GNP nominees, said at a district rally, ＂Yoon Yoe-joon, so favored by the GNP head, is not a graduate of Kyonggi High School (an exclusive Seoul high school with famous and powerful alumni).
The documents submitted to Chong Wa Dae shows his having graduated from South Chungchong Kwangchon Commercial High School instead,＂ and urged Lee to pull out of the elections for falsifying documents and his personal history.
The MDP also claimed former GNP spokesman Lee Sa-chol was responsible for manipulating a spy scandal 