North Korea＇s relations with the United States and Japan appear to be on the up as obstacles to further improved relations are removed one by one.

 On March 13 North Korea resolved the issue of kidnapped Japanese nationals, the thorniest hindrance on the road to normalizing diplomatic ties.
The two nations held Red Cross talks, separate from the main meeting, and announced a joint agreement.

 The joint agreement includes the following: Japanese spouses will be allowed to visit home in April or May, their third such visit; a thorough investigation will be launched into the disappeared (kidnapped Japanese nationals) and if they are found, appropriate measures will be taken; investigations will begin into Koreans who disappeared before 1945.

 It was essential for Japan to resolve the kidnapping issue in order to forge ties with North Korea, as the Japanese right wing insisted that without the resolution of this issue it would hinder any further talks.
It now appears that North Korea has made acceptable efforts to provide Japan with an adequate response.

 Up until now, North Korea refused to admit that it had kidnapped Japanese nationals.
Now it has tackled the problem without losing too much face.
The agreed ＂appropriate measures＂ to be taken with respect to the kidnapped Japanese remain to be clarified, but it is predicted that they will be concluded quietly after negotiating with Japan, along with corresponding Korean demands for information on their disappeared.

 In addition, the United States has not ruled out the possibility of removing North Korea from its list of terrorist-sponsoring nations.
In a joint press conference on March 13 with Korean Foreign Minister Lee Joung-binn, US State Secretary Madeleine Albright made no comment after Mr. Yi said, ＂North Korea has not been engaged in terrorist acts toward South Korea for the past several years,＂ though her countenance reportedly did not appear to contradict the statement.

 There are four requirements for a country to be released from its status as a terrorist-sponsoring nation.
Of these, one must be fulfilled by the United States: the administration, under the direct responsibility of the secretary of state, must guarantee to Congress that the nation has not sponsored terrorism for the past six months and that it will not do so in the future and seeks a political agreement.

 Judging from Secretary Albright＇s attitude that day, it appears that if North Korea demonstrates a sincere will, there will not be any problem for the US administration to begin an agreement procedure.

 North Korea is in urgent need for economic support.
The general analysis in diplomatic circles is that North Korea will push for a lift through a ＂technical agreement＂ with the United States as it did with Japan.

 An official at the Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said, ＂There is no knowing which direction North Korea＇s talks with the United States and Japan will take because North Korea has employed brinkmanship diplomacy all along.
However, as thorny issues with the United States and Japan are being resolved, we can expect a smooth sailing - even if it takes some time.＂