The most important benefit of the President Kim Dae-jung＇s visit to four-European country is that Kim made a firm ground of diplomatic relation with North Korea, according to Lee Chong-bin, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

Every leader or head of the visiting country supported Kim＇s friendly policy to North Korea.
Italian Prime Minister Massimo D＇Alema even promised to act as a mitigator between the South and North.
Kim asked Pope John Paul II and mayor of Berlin to visit North Korea and both of them responded a positive answer.
Kim＇s effort is finalized on the ＂Berlin Declaration＂ which demanded a bilateral talks between two separated Korean governments.

Chong Wa Dae spokesman Park Joon-young said, ＂The visit drew out a guideline of diplomatic relationship with North Korea by building a friendly relationship with European nations.＂ Kim＇s diplomatic tactics is based on his turbulent experience as a politician.
The European media and leaders lauded Kim including Italian Premier D＇Alema who called Kim as ＂Teacher of Life.＂ Another big fruit of the visit is the promises of vast size of investment from European companies.
Three nations will invest 14 billion dollars in Korea.
Lee Ki-ho, Kim＇s chief economic adviser said about 10 billion won investment will be signed within the year.
This is tremendous improvement compared to last year＇s 4.7 billion won.

And the deal is mostly between small and medium-sized enterprises.
Kim has been trying to promote those business to make economical reform, meaning the deal will speed up the reform.

The ＇Milan Project＇ is launched during the visit which will boom the declining textile business in Taeku city, and a statement of cooperation was signed with Italian and German small and medium-sized enterprises.

Kim＇s interest in venture company got him cooperation from high-technology business.
For example, at the submit talk with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, two leaders agreed on establishing global venture investment center, cyber venture university, and collaboration on developing intelligent micro-system and biological engineering.

Kim＇s suggestion of the information superhighway between Europe and Asia is a big step for Korea, giving a better chance to be a leader in the cyber generation, 21 century, said the Kim＇s spokesman.

The visit is also significant in diplomatic side.
Korea had been dealing with only bilateral relationships but Kim focused on a variety of issues including democracy, marketing, and human rights.
Hot issues in Europe and Asia like Kosovo and East Timor were mentioned during the submit talks.
Also 3rd Asia Europe Meeting (ASEM) to be held in Seoul in October was discussed with great attention.
Kim＇s visit to Vatican and Italy as the first head of state since the two countries established diplomatic ties is one of the results of improvement in international diplomacy, said the spokesman.