The listing on NASDAQ of eMachines, the U.S. corporation jointly owned by Korea Data Systems(KDS) and Trigem Computers Inc. (known in Korea as Sambo Computers), has been confirmed.
Stocks in eMachines will be offered for public subscription on March 23 before it is listed on NASDAQ at the end of this month.
Aluminum Korea Co. and Indi Inc. are also planning to obtain approval for their U.S. venture firms to be listed on NASDAQ within this year.

 eMachines announced its intentions to obtain approval for listing at an investment forum (road show) for investors in Seoul on March 6.
This is the first time for a Korean company to be listed on NASDAQ - despite the frequent rumors of imminent listings that have previously caused ripples in financial circles.

 Stephen Ducker, eMachines president, said, ＂We don＇t just sell cheap computers.
We can also offer Internet advertising space to computer users, which gives us an edge.＂ eMachines will hold a road show for Japanese investors in Tokyo on March 7, and then fly to the U.S. to organize another road show.
The number of stocks for public subscription is 20 million, and the price range is expected to be $8 to $10.
Trigem Computers and KDS are retaining 23 percent each of the shares in eMachines.

 Another KOSDAQ-listed firm, Aluminum Korea, is also working to be listed on NASDAQ through its U.S. based affiliate Aluco USA, with the takeover of an American company at an off-board market.
A source from Aluco said, ＂We will take over the U.S. company to satisfy the listing requirements, and will then apply for listing on the small cap of NASDAQ, which is for beginner investors and traders.
We anticipate it will happen around May.＂ Aluminum Korea will publicize its plans for listing at its industrial forum in October.

 Indi Inc., a U.S.-based investor in ZipAsia, is also pushing to be listed on NASDAQ.
It is planning to construct a network community between Internet users from different Asian countries including Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and China, in order to provide e-commerce services.
As Indi Inc. owns 13.97 percent of ZipAsia＇s total shares, it is expected that Indi.
Inc. will gain a substantial increase in profits if the NASDAQ listing is realized.

 A source from Daewoo Securities commented, ＂Like eMachines, locally-invested foreign companies will have many more chances to be listed on NASDAQ.
However, it should be noted that not every firm can obtain a listing just 